PART 1. SUBJECT MATTER AND DEFINITIONS

§ 4A-101. SHORT TITLE.Primary tabsThis Article may be cited as Uniform Commercial Code--FundsTransfers.‹ PART 1. SUBJECT MATTER AND DEFINITIONSup
§ 4A-102. SUBJECT MATTER. ›

§ 4A-102. SUBJECT MATTER.Except as otherwise provided in Section4A-108,this Article applies tofunds transfersdefinedin Section4A-104.

§ 4A-103. PAYMENT ORDER - DEFINITIONS.(a) In this Article:
(1)"Paymentorder" means an instruction of asendertoareceiving bank, transmitted orally, electronically,or in writing, to pay, or to cause anotherbankto pay,a fixed or determinable amount of money to abeneficiaryif:
(i) the instruction does not state a condition to paymentto the beneficiary other than time of payment,(ii) the receiving bank is to be reimbursed by debitingan account of, or otherwise receiving payment from, the sender, and(iii) the instruction is transmitted by the sender directlyto the receiving bank or to an agent,funds-transfersystem, or communication system for transmittal to the receiving bank.
(2)"Beneficiary" meansthe person to be paid by thebeneficiary's bank.
(3)"Beneficiary'sbank" means thebankidentified in apaymentorderin which an account of thebeneficiaryisto be credited pursuant to the order or which otherwise is to make paymentto the beneficiary if the order does not provide for payment to an account.
(4)"Receivingbank" means thebankto which thesender'sinstructionis addressed.
(5)"Sender" meansthe person giving the instruction to thereceivingbank.(b) If an instruction complyingwith subsection (a)(1) is to make more than one payment to abeneficiary,the instruction is a separatepayment orderwithrespect to each payment.(c) Apaymentorderis issued when it is sent to thereceivingbank.

§ 4A-104. FUNDS TRANSFER - DEFINITIONS.In this Article:
(a)"Fundstransfer" means the series of transactions, beginning with theoriginator'spaymentorder, made for the purpose of making payment to thebeneficiaryofthe order. The term includes any payment order issued by theoriginator'sbankor anintermediary bankintended tocarry out the originator's payment order. Afundstransferis completed by acceptance by thebeneficiary'sbankof a payment order for the benefit of the beneficiary of the originator'spayment order.(b)"Intermediarybank" means areceiving bankotherthan theoriginator's bankor thebeneficiary'sbank.(c)"Originator" meansthesenderof the firstpaymentorderin afunds transfer.(d)"Originator'sbank" means (i) thereceiving banktowhich thepayment orderof theoriginatorisissued if the originator is not abank, or (ii) the originatorif the originator is a bank.

§ 4A-105. OTHER DEFINITIONS.(a) In this Article:
(1)"Authorizedaccount" means a deposit account of acustomerinabankdesignated by the customer as a source of paymentofpayment ordersissued by the customer to thebank. If a customer does not so designate an account, any account ofthe customer is anauthorized accountif paymentof a payment order from that account is not inconsistent with a restrictionon the use of that account.
(2)"Bank" meansa person engaged in the business of banking and includes a savingsbank,savings and loan association, credit union, and trust company. A branchor separate office of a bank is a separate bank for purposes of this Article.
(3)"Customer" meansa person, including abank, having an account with a bankor from whom a bank has agreed to receivepayment orders.
(4)"Funds-transferbusiness day" of areceiving bankmeansthe part of a day during which the receiving bank is open for the receipt,processing, and transmittal ofpayment ordersandcancellations and amendments of payment orders.
(5)"Funds-transfersystem" means a wire transfer network, automated clearing house,or other communication system of a clearing house or other association ofbanksthroughwhich apayment orderby a bank may be transmittedto the bank to which the order is addressed.
(6) [reserved]
(7)"Prove" withrespect to a fact means to meet the burden of establishing the fact (Section1-201(b)(8)).(b) Other definitions applyingto this Article and the sections in which they appear are:
"Acceptance" Section4A-209"Beneficiary" Section4A-103"Beneficiary's bank" Section4A-103"Executed" Section4A-301"Execution date" Section4A-301"Funds transfer" Section4A-104"Funds-transfer systemrule" Section4A-501"Intermediary bank" Section4A-104"Originator" Section4A-104"Originator's bank" Section4A-104"Payment by beneficiary'sbank to beneficiary" Section4A-405"Payment by originatortobeneficiary" Section4A-406"Payment by sender to receivingbank" Section4A-403"Payment date" Section4A-401"Payment order" Section4A-103"Receiving bank" Section4A-103"Security procedure" Section4A-201"Sender" Section4A-103(c) The following definitionsin Article 4 apply to this Article:
"Clearing house" Section4-104"Item" Section4-104"Suspends payments" Section4-104(d) In addition Article 1contains general definitions and principles of construction and interpretationapplicable throughout this Article.

§ 4A-106. TIME PAYMENT ORDER IS RECEIVED.(a) The time of receipt ofapayment orderor communication cancelling or amendinga payment order is determined by the rules applicable to receipt of a noticestated in Section1-202. Areceivingbankmay fix a cut-off time or times on afunds-transferbusiness dayfor the receipt and processing of payment orders and communicationscancelling or amending payment orders. Different cut-off times may applyto payment orders, cancellations, or amendments, or to different categoriesof payment orders, cancellations, or amendments. A cut-off time may applytosendersgenerally or different cut-off times may applyto different senders or categories of payment orders. If a payment orderor communication cancelling or amending a payment order is received after theclose of a funds-transfer business day or after the appropriate cut-off timeon a funds-transfer business day, the receiving bank may treat the payment orderor communication as received at the opening of the next funds-transfer businessday.(b) If this Article refersto anexecution dateorpaymentdateor states a day on which areceiving bankisrequired to take action, and the date or day does not fall on afunds-transferbusiness day, the next day that is a funds-transfer business day is treatedas the date or day stated, unless the contrary is stated in this Article.

§ 4A-107. FEDERAL RESERVE REGULATIONS AND OPERATING CIRCULARS.Regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal ReserveSystem and operating circulars of the Federal Reserve Banks supersede any inconsistentprovision of this Article to the extent of the inconsistency.

§ 4A-108. RELATIONSHIP TO ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER ACT.(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), this Article does not apply to afundstransferany part of which is governed by the Electronic Fund TransferAct of 1978 (Title XX, Public Law 95-630, 92 Stat. 3728, 15 U.S.C. § 1693et seq.) as amended from time to time.(b) This Article applies to a funds transfer that is a remittance transfer as defined in the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 1693o-1) as amended from time to time, unless the remittance transfer is an electronic fund transfer as defined in the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. Sec. 1693a) as amended from time to time.(c) In a funds transfer to which this Article applies, in the event of an inconsistency between an applicable provision of this Article and an applicable provision of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the provision of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act governs to the extent of the inconsistency.



PART 2. ISSUE AND ACCEPTANCE OF PAYMENT ORDER

§ 4A-201. SECURITY PROCEDURE."Securityprocedure" means a procedure established by agreement of acustomerandareceiving bankfor the purpose of (i) verifyingthat apayment orderor communication amendingor cancelling a payment order is that of the customer, or (ii) detecting errorin the transmission or the content of the payment order or communication. Asecurityproceduremay require the use of algorithms or other codes, identifyingwords or numbers, encryption, callback procedures, or similar security devices. Comparisonof a signature on a payment order or communication with an authorized specimensignature of the customer is not by itself a security procedure.

§ 4A-202. AUTHORIZED AND VERIFIED PAYMENT ORDERS.(a) Apaymentorderreceived by thereceiving bankis theauthorized order of the person identified assenderifthat person authorized the order or is otherwise bound by it under the lawof agency.(b) If abankanditscustomerhave agreed that the authenticity ofpaymentordersissued to the bank in the name of the customer assenderwillbe verified pursuant to asecurity procedure,a payment order received by thereceiving bankiseffective as the order of the customer, whether or not authorized, if (i) thesecurity procedure is a commercially reasonable method of providing securityagainst unauthorized payment orders, and (ii) the bankprovesthatit accepted the payment order ingood faithand incompliance with the security procedure and any written agreement or instructionof the customer restricting acceptance of payment orders issued in the nameof the customer. The bank is not required to follow an instruction thatviolates a written agreement with the customer or notice of which is not receivedat a time and in a manner affording the bank a reasonable opportunity to acton it before the payment order is accepted.(c) Commercial reasonablenessof asecurity procedureis a question of lawto be determined by considering the wishes of thecustomerexpressedto thebank, the circumstances of the customer known tothe bank, including the size, type, and frequency ofpaymentordersnormally issued by the customer to the bank, alternative securityprocedures offered to the customer, and security procedures in general use bycustomers andreceiving bankssimilarly situated. Asecurity procedure is deemed to be commercially reasonable if (i) the securityprocedure was chosen by the customer after the bank offered, and the customerrefused, a security procedure that was commercially reasonable for that customer,and (ii) the customer expressly agreed in writing to be bound by any paymentorder, whether or not authorized, issued in its name and accepted by the bankin compliance with the security procedure chosen by the customer.(d) The term "sender" inthis Article includes thecustomerin whose name apaymentorderis issued if the order is the authorized order of the customer undersubsection (a), or it is effective as the order of the customer under subsection(b).(e) This section applies toamendments and cancellations ofpayment orderstothe same extent it applies to payment orders.(f) Except as provided inthis section and in Section4A-203(a)
(1), rights andobligations arising under this section or Section4A-203maynot be varied by agreement.

§ 4A-203. UNENFORCEABILITY OF CERTAIN VERIFIED PAYMENT ORDERS.(a) If an acceptedpaymentorderis not, under Section4A-202(a), an authorizedorder of acustomeridentified assender,but is effective as an order of the customer pursuant to Section4A-202(b),the following rules apply:
(1) By express written agreement, thereceivingbankmay limit the extent to which it is entitled to enforce or retainpayment of thepayment order.
(2) Thereceiving bankisnot entitled to enforce or retain payment of thepaymentorderif thecustomerprovesthatthe order was not caused, directly or indirectly, by a person (i) entrustedat any time with duties to act for the customer with respect to payment ordersor thesecurity procedure, or (ii) who obtainedaccess to transmitting facilities of the customer or who obtained, from a sourcecontrolled by the customer and without authority of the receiving bank, informationfacilitating breach of the security procedure, regardless of how the informationwas obtained or whether the customer was at fault. Information includesany access device, computer software, or the like.(b) This section applies toamendments ofpayment ordersto the same extentit applies to payment orders.

§ 4A-204. REFUND OF PAYMENT AND DUTY OF CUSTOMER TO REPORT WITH RESPECT TO UNAUTHORIZED PAYMENT ORDER.(a) If areceivingbankaccepts apayment orderissued in thename of itscustomerassenderwhichis (i) not authorized and not effective as the order of the customer underSection4A-202, or (ii) not enforceable, in whole orin part, against the customer under Section4A-203, thebankshallrefund any payment of the payment order received from the customer to the extentthe bank is not entitled to enforce payment and shall pay interest on the refundableamount calculated from the date the bank received payment to the date of therefund. However, the customer is not entitled to interest from the bankon the amount to be refunded if the customer fails to exercise ordinary careto determine that the order was not authorized by the customer and to notifythe bank of the relevant facts within a reasonable time not exceeding 90 daysafter the date the customer received notification from the bank that the orderwas accepted or that the customer's account was debited with respect to theorder. The bank is not entitled to any recovery from the customer onaccount of a failure by the customer to give notification as stated in thissection.(b) Reasonable time undersubsection (a) may be fixed by agreement as stated in Section1-204(1),but the obligation of areceiving bankto refundpayment as stated in subsection (a) may not otherwise be varied by agreement.

§ 4A-205. ERRONEOUS PAYMENT ORDERS.(a) If an acceptedpaymentorderwas transmitted pursuant to asecurityprocedurefor the detection of error and the payment order (i) erroneouslyinstructed payment to abeneficiarynot intendedby thesender, (ii) erroneously instructed payment inan amount greater than the amount intended by the sender, or (iii) was an erroneouslytransmitted duplicate of a payment order previously sent by the sender, thefollowing rules apply:
(1) If thesenderprovesthatthe sender or a person acting on behalf of the sender pursuant to Section4A-206compliedwith thesecurity procedureand that the errorwould have been detected if thereceiving bankhadalso complied, the sender is not obliged to pay the order to the extent statedin paragraphs (2) and (3).
(2) If thefunds transferiscompleted on the basis of an erroneouspayment orderdescribedin clause (i) or (iii) of subsection (a), thesenderisnot obliged to pay the order and thereceiving bankisentitled to recover from thebeneficiaryany amountpaid to the beneficiary to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake andrestitution.
(3) If thefunds transferiscompleted on the basis of apayment orderdescribedin clause (ii) of subsection (a), thesenderis not obligedto pay the order to the extent the amount received by thebeneficiaryisgreater than the amount intended by the sender. In that case, thereceivingbankis entitled to recover from the beneficiary the excess amount receivedto the extent allowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.(b) If (i) thesenderofan erroneouspayment orderdescribed in subsection(a) is not obliged to pay all or part of the order, and (ii) the sender receivesnotification from thereceiving bankthat the orderwas accepted by thebankor that the sender's account wasdebited with respect to the order, the sender has a duty to exercise ordinarycare, on the basis of information available to the sender, to discover the errorwith respect to the order and to advise the bank of the relevant facts withina reasonable time, not exceeding 90 days, after the bank's notification wasreceived by the sender. If the bank proves that the sender failed to performthat duty, the sender is liable to the bank for the loss the bankprovesitincurred as a result of the failure, but the liability of the sender may notexceed the amount of the sender's order.(c) This section applies toamendments topayment ordersto the same extentit applies to payment orders.

§ 4A-206. TRANSMISSION OF PAYMENT ORDER THROUGH FUNDS-TRANSFER OR OTHER COMMUNICATION SYSTEM.(a) If apaymentorderaddressed to areceiving bankis transmittedto afunds-transfer systemor other third-partycommunication system for transmittal to thebank, the systemis deemed to be an agent of thesenderfor the purposeof transmitting the payment order to the bank. If there is a discrepancybetween the terms of the payment order transmitted to the system and the termsof the payment order transmitted by the system to the bank, the terms of thepayment order of the sender are those transmitted by the system. Thissection does not apply to a funds-transfer system of the Federal Reserve Banks.(b) This section applies tocancellations and amendments ofpayment orderstothe same extent it applies to payment orders.

§ 4A-207. MISDESCRIPTION OF BENEFICIARY.(a) Subject to subsection(b), if, in apayment orderreceived by thebeneficiary'sbank, the name,bankaccount number, or other identificationof thebeneficiaryrefers to a nonexistent or unidentifiableperson or account, no person has rights as a beneficiary of the order and acceptanceof the order cannot occur.(b) If apaymentorderreceived by thebeneficiary's bankidentifiesthebeneficiaryboth by name and by an identifyingor bank account number and the name and number identify different persons,the following rules apply:
(1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c),if thebeneficiary's bankdoes not know thatthe name and number refer to different persons, it may rely on the number asthe proper identification of thebeneficiaryof theorder. The beneficiary's bank need not determine whether the name andnumber refer to the same person.
(2) If thebeneficiary'sbankpays the person identified by name or knows that the name and numberidentify different persons, no person has rights asbeneficiaryexceptthe person paid by the beneficiary's bank if that person was entitled to receivepayment from theoriginatorof thefundstransfer. If no person has rights as beneficiary, acceptance of theorder cannot occur.(c) If (i) apaymentorderdescribed in subsection (b) is accepted, (ii) theoriginator'spaymentorder described thebeneficiaryinconsistently byname and number, and (iii) thebeneficiary's bankpaysthe person identified by number as permitted by subsection (b)(1), the followingrules apply:
(1) If theoriginatorisabank, the originator is obliged to pay its order.
(2) If theoriginatorisnot abankandprovesthat the personidentified by number was not entitled to receive payment from the originator,the originator is not obliged to pay its order unless theoriginator'sbankproves that the originator, before acceptance of the originator's order,had notice that payment of apayment orderissuedby the originator might be made by thebeneficiary'sbankon the basis of an identifying or bank account number even if it identifiesa person different from the namedbeneficiary. Proofof notice may be made by any admissible evidence. The originator's banksatisfies the burden of proof if it proves that the originator, before the paymentorder was accepted, signed a writing stating the information to which the noticerelates.(d) In a case governed bysubsection (b)(1), if thebeneficiary's bankrightfullypays the person identified by number and that person was not entitled to receivepayment from theoriginator, the amount paid may berecovered from that person to the extent allowed by the law governing mistakeand restitution as follows:
(1) If theoriginatorisobliged to pay itspayment orderas stated in subsection(c), the originator has the right to recover.
(2) If theoriginatorisnot abankand is not obliged to pay itspaymentorder, theoriginator's bankhas the rightto recover.

§ 4A-208. MISDESCRIPTION OF INTERMEDIARY BANK OR BENEFICIARY's BANK.(a) This subsection appliesto apayment orderidentifying anintermediarybankor thebeneficiary's bankonly by anidentifying number.
(1) Thereceiving bankmayrely on the number as the proper identification of the intermediary orbeneficiary'sbankand need not determine whether the number identifies abank.
(2) Thesenderis obligedto compensate thereceiving bankfor any loss andexpenses incurred by the receiving bank as a result of its reliance on the numberin executing or attempting to execute the order.(b) This subsection appliesto apayment orderidentifying anintermediarybankor thebeneficiary's bankboth by nameand an identifying number if the name and number identify different persons.
(1) If thesenderis abank,thereceiving bankmay rely on the number as theproper identification of the intermediary orbeneficiary'sbankif the receiving bank, when it executes the sender's order, does notknow that the name and number identify different persons. The receivingbank need not determine whether the name and number refer to the same personor whether the number refers to a bank. The sender is obliged to compensatethe receiving bank for any loss and expenses incurred by the receiving bankas a result of its reliance on the number in executing or attempting to executethe order.
(2) If thesenderis not abankandthereceiving bankprovesthatthe sender, before thepayment orderwas accepted,had notice that the receiving bank might rely on the number as the proper identificationof the intermediary orbeneficiary's bankevenif it identifies a person different from the bank identified by name, the rightsand obligations of the sender and the receiving bank are governed by subsection(b)(1), as though the sender were a bank. Proof of notice may be madeby any admissible evidence. The receiving bank satisfies the burden ofproof if it proves that the sender, before the payment order was accepted, signeda writing stating the information to which the notice relates.
(3) Regardless of whether thesenderisabank, thereceiving bankmayrely on the name as the proper identification of the intermediary orbeneficiary'sbankif the receiving bank, at the time it executes the sender's order,does not know that the name and number identify different persons. Thereceiving bank need not determine whether the name and number refer to the sameperson.
(4) If thereceiving bankknowsthat the name and number identify different persons, reliance on either thename or the number in executing thesender'spaymentorderis a breach of the obligation stated in Section4A-302(a)
(1).

§ 4A-209. ACCEPTANCE OF PAYMENT ORDER.(a)Subjectto subsection (d), areceiving bankother thanthebeneficiary's bankaccepts apaymentorderwhen it executes the order.(b) Subject to subsections(c) and (d), abeneficiary's bankaccepts apaymentorderat the earliest of the following times:
(1) when thebank(i) pays thebeneficiaryasstated in Section4A-405(a)or4A-405(b),or (ii) notifies the beneficiary of receipt of the order or that the accountof the beneficiary has been credited with respect to the order unless the noticeindicates that the bank is rejecting the order or that funds with respect tothe order may not be withdrawn or used until receipt of payment from thesenderofthe order;
(2) when thebankreceives paymentof the entire amount of thesender'sorder pursuant toSection4A-403(a)
(1) or4A-403(a)
(2);or
(3) the opening of the nextfunds-transferbusiness dayof thebankfollowing thepaymentdateof the order if, at that time, the amount of thesender'sorderis fully covered by a withdrawable credit balance in anauthorizedaccountof the sender or the bank has otherwise received full payment fromthe sender, unless the order was rejected before that time or is rejected within(i) one hour after that time, or (ii) one hour after the opening of the nextbusiness day of the sender following the payment date if that time is later. Ifnotice of rejection is received by the sender after the payment date and theauthorized account of the sender does not bear interest, the bank is obligedto pay interest to the sender on the amount of the order for the number ofdays elapsing after the payment date to the day the sender receives noticeor learns that the order was not accepted, counting that day as an elapsedday. If the withdrawable credit balance during that period falls belowthe amount of the order, the amount of interest payable is reduced accordingly.(c) Acceptance of apaymentordercannot occur before the order is received by thereceivingbank. Acceptance does not occur under subsection (b)(2) or (b)(3)if thebeneficiaryof the payment order does nothave an account with the receiving bank, the account has been closed, or thereceiving bank is not permitted by law to receive credits for the beneficiary'saccount.(d) Apaymentorderissued to theoriginator's bankcannotbe accepted until the payment date if thebankis thebeneficiary'sbank, or theexecution dateif the bank isnot the beneficiary's bank. If theoriginator'sbankexecutes theoriginator'spayment orderbefore the execution date or pays thebeneficiaryofthe originator's payment order before thepayment dateandthe payment order is subsequently canceled pursuant to Section4A-211(b),the bank may recover from the beneficiary any payment received to the extentallowed by the law governing mistake and restitution.

§ 4A-210. REJECTION OF PAYMENT ORDER.(a) Apaymentorderis rejected by thereceiving bankbya notice of rejection transmitted to thesenderorally,electronically, or in writing. A notice of rejection need not use anyparticular words and is sufficient if it indicates that the receiving bankis rejecting the order or will not execute or pay the order. Rejectionis effective when the notice is given if transmission is by a means that isreasonable in the circumstances. If notice of rejection is given by ameans that is not reasonable, rejection is effective when the notice is received. Ifan agreement of the sender and receiving bank establishes the means to be usedto reject a payment order, (i) any means complying with the agreement is reasonableand (ii) any means not complying is not reasonable unless no significant delayin receipt of the notice resulted from the use of the noncomplying means.(b) This subsection appliesif areceiving bankother than thebeneficiary'sbankfails to execute apayment orderdespitethe existence on theexecution dateof a withdrawablecredit balance in anauthorized accountofthesendersufficient to cover the order. If thesender does not receive notice of rejection of the order on the execution dateand the authorized account of the sender does not bear interest, thebankisobliged to pay interest to the sender on the amount of the order for the numberof days elapsing after the execution date to the earlier of the day the orderis canceled pursuant to Section4A-211(d)or the daythe sender receives notice or learns that the order was not executed, countingthe final day of the period as an elapsed day. If the withdrawable creditbalance during that period falls below the amount of the order, the amount ofinterest is reduced accordingly.(c) If areceivingbanksuspends payments, all unacceptedpaymentordersissued to it are deemed rejected at the time thebanksuspendspayments.(d) Acceptance of apaymentorderprecludes a later rejection of the order. Rejection of a paymentorder precludes a later acceptance of the order.

§ 4A-211. CANCELLATION AND AMENDMENT OF PAYMENT ORDER.(a) A communication of thesenderofapayment ordercancelling or amending the ordermay be transmitted to thereceiving bankorally,electronically, or in writing. If asecurityprocedureis in effect between the sender and the receiving bank, thecommunication is not effective to cancel or amend the order unless the communicationis verified pursuant to the security procedure or thebankagreesto the cancellation or amendment.(b) Subject to subsection(a), a communication by thesendercancelling or amendingapayment orderis effective to cancel or amendthe order if notice of the communication is received at a time and in a manneraffording thereceiving banka reasonable opportunityto act on the communication before thebankaccepts thepayment order.(c) After apaymentorderhas been accepted, cancellation or amendment of the order is noteffective unless thereceiving bankagrees orafunds-transfer system ruleallowscancellation or amendment without agreement of thebank.
(1) With respect to apaymentorderaccepted by areceiving bankother thanthebeneficiary's bank, cancellation or amendmentis not effective unless a conforming cancellation or amendment of the paymentorder issued by thereceiving bankis also made.
(2) With respect to apaymentorderaccepted by thebeneficiary's bank,cancellation or amendment is not effective unless the order was issued in executionof an unauthorized payment order, or because of a mistake by asenderinthefunds transferwhich resulted in the issuanceof a payment order (i) that is a duplicate of a payment order previously issuedby the sender, (ii) that orders payment to abeneficiarynotentitled to receive payment from theoriginator,or (iii) that orders payment in an amount greater than the amount the beneficiarywas entitled to receive from the originator. If the payment order iscanceled or amended, the beneficiary's bank is entitled to recover from thebeneficiary any amount paid to the beneficiary to the extent allowed by thelaw governing mistake and restitution.(d) An unacceptedpaymentorderis canceled by operation of law at the close of the fifthfunds-transferbusiness dayof thereceiving bankafter theexecutiondateorpayment dateof the order.(e) A canceledpaymentordercannot be accepted. If an accepted payment order is canceled,the acceptance is nullified and no person has any right or obligation basedon the acceptance. Amendment of a payment order is deemed to be cancellationof the original order at the time of amendment and issue of a new payment orderin the amended form at the same time.(f) Unless otherwise providedin an agreement of the parties or in afunds-transfersystem rule, if thereceiving bank, after acceptingapayment order, agrees to cancellation or amendmentof the order by thesenderor is bound by a funds-transfersystem rule allowing cancellation or amendment without thebank'sagreement,the sender, whether or not cancellation or amendment is effective, is liableto the bank for any loss and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees,incurred by the bank as a result of the cancellation or amendment or attemptedcancellation or amendment.(g) Apaymentorderis not revoked by the death or legal incapacity of thesenderunlessthereceiving bankknows of the death or of anadjudication of incapacity by a court of competent jurisdiction and has reasonableopportunity to act before acceptance of the order.(h) Afunds-transfersystem ruleis not effective to the extent it conflicts with subsection(c)(2).

§ 4A-212. LIABILITY AND DUTY OF RECEIVING BANK REGARDING UNACCEPTED PAYMENT ORDER.If areceiving bankfailsto accept apayment orderthat it is obliged byexpress agreement to accept, thebankis liable for breachof the agreement to the extent provided in the agreement or in this Article,but does not otherwise have any duty to accept a payment order or, before acceptance,to take any action, or refrain from taking action, with respect to the orderexcept as provided in this Article or by express agreement. Liabilitybased on acceptance arises only when acceptance occurs as stated in Section4A-209,and liability is limited to that provided in this Article. A receivingbank is not the agent of thesenderorbeneficiaryofthepayment orderit accepts, or of any other partyto thefunds transfer, and the bank owes no dutyto any party to the funds transfer except as provided in this Article or byexpress agreement.



PART 3. EXECUTION OF SENDER'S PAYMENT ORDER BY RECEIVING BANK

§ 4A-301. EXECUTION AND EXECUTION DATE.(a) Apaymentorderis "executed" by thereceivingbankwhen it issues a payment order intended to carry out the payment orderreceived by thebank. A payment order received bythebeneficiary's bankcan be accepted butcannot be executed.(b)"Executiondate" of apayment ordermeans theday on which thereceiving bankmay properly issuea payment order in execution of thesender'sorder. Theexecutiondatemay be determined by instruction of the sender but cannot be earlierthan the day the order is received and, unless otherwise determined, is theday the order is received. If the sender's instruction states apaymentdate, the execution date is the payment date or an earlier date on whichexecution is reasonably necessary to allow payment to thebeneficiaryonthe payment date.

§ 4A-302. OBLIGATIONS OF RECEIVING BANK IN EXECUTION OF PAYMENT ORDER.(a) Except as provided insubsections (b) through (d), if thereceiving bankacceptsapayment orderpursuant to Section 4A-209(a), thebankhasthe following obligations in executing the order:
(1) Thereceiving bankisobliged to issue, on theexecution date, apaymentordercomplying with thesender'sorder and to followthe sender's instructions concerning (i) anyintermediarybankorfunds-transfer systemto beused in carrying out thefunds transfer, or (ii)the means by which payment orders are to be transmitted in the funds transfer. Iftheoriginator's bankissues a payment orderto an intermediary bank, the originator's bank is obliged to instruct the intermediarybank according to the instruction of theoriginator. Anintermediary bank in the funds transfer is similarly bound by an instructiongiven to it by the sender of the payment order it accepts.
(2) If thesender'sinstructionstates that thefunds transferis to be carriedout telephonically or by wire transfer or otherwise indicates that the fundstransfer is to be carried out by the most expeditious means, thereceivingbankis obliged to transmit itspayment orderbythe most expeditious available means, and to instruct anyintermediarybankaccordingly. If a sender's instruction states apaymentdate, the receiving bank is obliged to transmit its payment order at a timeand by means reasonably necessary to allow payment to thebeneficiaryonthepayment dateor as soon thereafter as is feasible.(b) Unless otherwise instructed,areceiving bankexecuting apaymentordermay (i) use anyfunds-transfer systemifuse of that system is reasonable in the circumstances, and (ii) issue a paymentorder to thebeneficiary's bankor to anintermediarybankthrough which a payment order conforming to thesender'sordercan expeditiously be issued to the beneficiary's bank if thereceivingbankexercises ordinary care in the selection of the intermediary bank. Areceiving bank is not required to follow an instruction of thesenderdesignatinga funds-transfer system to be used in carrying out thefundstransferif the receiving bank, ingood faith,determines that it is not feasible to follow the instruction or that followingthe instruction would unduly delay completion of the funds transfer.(c) Unless subsection (a)(2)applies or thereceiving bankis otherwise instructed,thebankmay execute apayment orderbytransmitting its payment order by first class mail or by any means reasonablein the circumstances. If the receiving bank is instructed to execute thesender'sorderby transmitting its payment order by a particular means, the receiving bankmay issue its payment order by the means stated or by any means as expeditiousas the means stated.(d) Unless instructed by thesender,(i) thereceiving bankmay not obtain payment ofits charges for services and expenses in connection with the execution of thesender's order by issuing apayment orderin anamount equal to the amount of the sender's order less the amount of the charges,and (ii) may not instruct a subsequent receiving bank to obtain payment of itscharges in the same manner.

§ 4A-303. ERRONEOUS EXECUTION OF PAYMENT ORDER.(a) Areceivingbankthat (i) executes thepayment orderofthesenderby issuing a payment order in an amount greaterthan the amount of the sender's order, or (ii) issues a payment order in executionof the sender's order and then issues a duplicate order, is entitled to payment ofthe amount of the sender's order under Section4A-402(c)ifthat subsection is otherwise satisfied. Thebankisentitled to recover from thebeneficiaryof theerroneous order the excess payment received to the extent allowed by the lawgoverning mistake and restitution.(b) Areceivingbankthat executes thepayment orderof thesenderbyissuing a payment order in an amount less than the amount of the sender's orderis entitled to payment of the amount of the sender's order under Section4A-402(c)if(i) that subsection is otherwise satisfied and (ii) thebankcorrectsits mistake by issuing an additional payment order for the benefit of thebeneficiaryofthe sender's order. If the error is not corrected, the issuer of theerroneous order is entitled to receive or retain payment from the sender ofthe order it accepted only to the extent of the amount of the erroneous order. Thissubsection does not apply if the receiving bank executes the sender's paymentorder by issuing a payment order in an amount less than the amount of the sender'sorder for the purpose of obtaining payment of its charges for services andexpenses pursuant to instruction of the sender.(c) If areceivingbankexecutes thepayment orderof thesenderbyissuing a payment order to abeneficiarydifferentfrom the beneficiary of the sender's order and thefundstransferis completed on the basis of that error, the sender of the paymentorder that was erroneously executed and all previous senders in the funds transferare not obliged to pay the payment orders they issued. The issuer ofthe erroneous order is entitled to recover from the beneficiary of the orderthe payment received to the extent allowed by the law governing mistake andrestitution.

§ 4A-304. DUTY OF SENDER TO REPORT ERRONEOUSLY EXECUTED PAYMENT ORDER.If thesenderof apaymentorderthat is erroneously executed as stated in Section4A-303receivesnotification from thereceiving bankthat theorder was executed or that the sender's account was debited with respect tothe order, the sender has a duty to exercise ordinary care to determine, onthe basis of information available to the sender, that the order was erroneouslyexecuted and to notify thebankof the relevant facts withina reasonable time not exceeding 90 days after the notification from the bankwas received by the sender. If the sender fails to perform that duty,the bank is not obliged to pay interest on any amount refundable to the senderunder Section4A-402(d)for the period before the banklearns of the execution error. The bank is not entitled to any recoveryfrom the sender on account of a failure by the sender to perform the duty statedin this section.

§ 4A-305. LIABILITY FOR LATE OR IMPROPER EXECUTION OR FAILURE TO EXECUTE PAYMENT ORDER.(a) If afundstransferis completed but execution of apaymentorderby thereceiving bankin breach of Section4A-302resultsin delay in payment to thebeneficiary, thebankisobliged to pay interest to either theoriginatororthe beneficiary of the funds transfer for the period of delay caused by theimproper execution. Except as provided in subsection (c), additionaldamages are not recoverable.(b) If execution of apaymentorderby areceiving bankin breach of Section4A-302resultsin (i) noncompletion of thefunds transfer, (ii)failure to use anintermediary bankdesignatedby theoriginator, or (iii) issuance of a paymentorder that does not comply with the terms of the payment order of the originator,thebankis liable to the originator for its expensesin the funds transfer and for incidental expenses and interest losses, to theextent not covered by subsection (a), resulting from the improper execution. Exceptas provided in subsection (c), additional damages are not recoverable.(c) In addition to the amountspayable under subsections (a) and (b), damages, including consequential damages,are recoverable to the extent provided in an express written agreement of thereceivingbank.(d) If areceivingbankfails to execute apayment orderit wasobliged by express agreement to execute, the receiving bank is liable to thesenderforits expenses in the transaction and for incidental expenses and interest lossesresulting from the failure to execute. Additional damages, includingconsequential damages, are recoverable to the extent provided in an expresswritten agreement of the receiving bank, but are not otherwise recoverable.(e) Reasonable attorney'sfees are recoverable if demand for compensation under subsection (a) or (b)is made and refused before an action is brought on the claim. If a claimis made for breach of an agreement under subsection (d) and the agreement doesnot provide for damages, reasonable attorney's fees are recoverable if demandfor compensation under subsection (d) is made and refused before an action isbrought on the claim.(f) Except as stated in thissection, the liability of areceiving bankundersubsections (a) and (b) may not be varied by agreement.



PART 4. PAYMENT

§ 4A-401. PAYMENT DATE."Paymentdate" of apayment ordermeans theday on which the amount of the order is payable to thebeneficiarybythebeneficiary's bank. The payment datemay be determined by instruction of thesenderbut cannotbe earlier than the day the order is received by the beneficiary's bank and,unless otherwise determined, is the day the order is received by the beneficiary'sbank.

§ 4A-402. OBLIGATION OF SENDER TO PAY RECEIVING BANK.(a) This section is subjectto Sections4A-205and4A-207.(b) With respect to apaymentorderissued to thebeneficiary's bank,acceptance of the order by thebankobliges thesendertopay the bank the amount of the order, but payment is not due until thepaymentdateof the order.(c) This subsection is subjectto subsection (e) and to Section4A-303. With respectto apayment orderissued to areceivingbankother than thebeneficiary's bank,acceptance of the order by the receiving bank obliges thesendertopay thebankthe amount of the sender's order. Paymentby the sender is not due until theexecution dateofthe sender's order. The obligation of that sender to pay its payment orderis excused if thefunds transferis not completedby acceptance by the beneficiary's bank of a payment order instructing paymentto thebeneficiaryof that sender's payment order.(d) If thesenderofapayment orderpays the order and was not obligedto pay all or part of the amount paid, thebankreceivingpayment is obliged to refund payment to the extent the sender was not obligedto pay. Except as provided in Sections4A-204and4A-304,interest is payable on the refundable amount from the date of payment.(e) If afundstransferis not completed as stated in subsection (c) and anintermediarybankis obliged to refund payment as stated in subsection (d) but is unableto do so because not permitted by applicable law or because thebanksuspendspayments, asenderin thefundstransferthat executed apayment orderin compliancewith an instruction, as stated in Section4A-302(a)
(1),to route the funds transfer through that intermediary bank is entitled to receiveor retain payment from the sender of the payment order that it accepted. Thefirst sender in the funds transfer that issued an instruction requiring routingthrough that intermediary bank is subrogated to the right of the bank thatpaid the intermediary bank to refund as stated in subsection (d).(f) The right of thesenderofapayment orderto be excused from the obligationto pay the order as stated in subsection (c) or to receive refund under subsection(d) may not be varied by agreement.

§ 4A-403. PAYMENT BY SENDER TO RECEIVING BANK.(a) Payment of thesender'sobligationunder Section4A-402to pay thereceivingbankoccurs as follows:
(1) If thesenderis abank,payment occurs when thereceiving bankreceivesfinal settlement of the obligation through a Federal Reserve Bank or throughafunds-transfer system.
(2) If thesenderis abankandthe sender (i) credited an account of thereceivingbankwith the sender, or (ii) caused an account of the receiving bank inanother bank to be credited, payment occurs when the credit is withdrawn or,if not withdrawn, at midnight of the day on which the credit is withdrawableand the receiving bank learns of that fact.
(3) If thereceiving bankdebitsan account of thesenderwith the receiving bank, paymentoccurs when the debit is made to the extent the debit is covered by a withdrawablecredit balance in the account.(b) If thesenderandreceivingbankare members of afunds-transfer systemthatnets obligations multilaterally among participants, the receiving bank receivesfinal settlement when settlement is complete in accordance with the rules ofthe system. The obligation of the sender to pay the amount of apaymentordertransmitted through the funds-transfer system may be satisfied, tothe extent permitted by the rules of the system, by setting off and applyingagainst the sender's obligation the right of the sender to receive paymentfrom the receiving bank of the amount of any other payment order transmittedto the sender by the receiving bank through the funds-transfer system. Theaggregate balance of obligations owed by each sender to each receiving bankin the funds-transfer system may be satisfied, to the extent permitted by therules of the system, by setting off and applying against that balance the aggregatebalance of obligations owed to the sender by other members of the system. Theaggregate balance is determined after the right of setoff stated in the secondsentence of this subsection has been exercised.(c) If twobankstransmitpaymentordersto each other under an agreement that settlement of the obligationsof each bank to the other under Section4A-402will bemade at the end of the day or other period, the total amount owed with respectto all orders transmitted by one bank shall be set off against the total amountowed with respect to all orders transmitted by the other bank. To theextent of the setoff, each bank has made payment to the other.(d) In a case not coveredby subsection (a), the time when payment of thesender'sobligationunder Section4A-402(b)or4A-402(c)occursis governed by applicable principles of law that determine when an obligationis satisfied.

§ 4A-404. OBLIGATION OF BENEFICIARY's BANK TO PAY AND GIVE NOTICE TO BENEFICIARY.(a) Subject to Sections4A-211(e),4A-405(d),and4A-405(e), if abeneficiary'sbankaccepts apayment order, thebankisobliged to pay the amount of the order to thebeneficiaryofthe order. Payment is due on thepayment dateofthe order, but if acceptance occurs on the payment date after the close of thefunds-transferbusiness dayof the bank, payment is due on the next funds-transfer businessday. If the bank refuses to pay after demand by the beneficiary and receiptof notice of particular circumstances that will give rise to consequential damagesas a result of nonpayment, the beneficiary may recover damages resulting fromthe refusal to pay to the extent the bank had notice of the damages, unlessthe bank proves that it did not pay because of a reasonable doubt concerningthe right of the beneficiary to payment.(b) If apaymentorderaccepted by thebeneficiary's bankinstructspayment to an account of thebeneficiary, thebankisobliged to notify the beneficiary of receipt of the order before midnight ofthe nextfunds-transfer business dayfollowingthepayment date. If the payment order doesnot instruct payment to an account of the beneficiary, the bank is requiredto notify the beneficiary only if notice is required by the order. Noticemay be given by first class mail or any other means reasonable in the circumstances. Ifthe bank fails to give the required notice, the bank is obliged to pay interestto the beneficiary on the amount of the payment order from the day notice shouldhave been given until the day the beneficiary learned of receipt of the paymentorder by the bank. No other damages are recoverable. Reasonableattorney's fees are also recoverable if demand for interest is made and refusedbefore an action is brought on the claim.(c) The right of abeneficiarytoreceive payment and damages as stated in subsection (a) may not be varied byagreement or afunds-transfer system rule. Theright of a beneficiary to be notified as stated in subsection (b) may be variedby agreement of the beneficiary or by a funds-transfer system rule if the beneficiaryis notified of the rule before initiation of thefundstransfer.

§ 4A-405. PAYMENT BY BENEFICIARY's BANK TO BENEFICIARY.(a) If thebeneficiary'sbankcredits an account of thebeneficiaryofapayment order, payment of thebank'sobligationunder Section4A-404(a)occurs when and to the extent(i) the beneficiary is notified of the right to withdraw the credit, (ii) thebank lawfully applies the credit to a debt of the beneficiary, or (iii) fundswith respect to the order are otherwise made available to the beneficiary bythe bank.(b) If thebeneficiary'sbankdoes not credit an account of thebeneficiaryofapayment order, the time when payment of thebank'sobligationunder Section4A-404(a)occurs is governed by principlesof law that determine when an obligation is satisfied.(c) Except as stated in subsections(d) and (e), if thebeneficiary's bankpaysthebeneficiaryof apaymentorderunder a condition to payment or agreement of the beneficiary givingthebankthe right to recover payment from the beneficiaryif the bank does not receive payment of the order, the condition to paymentor agreement is not enforceable.(d) Afunds-transfersystem rulemay provide that payments made to beneficiaries offundstransfersmade through the system are provisional until receipt of paymentby thebeneficiary's bankof thepaymentorderit accepted. A beneficiary's bank that makes a payment thatis provisional under the rule is entitled to refund from thebeneficiaryif(i) the rule requires that both the beneficiary and theoriginatorbegiven notice of the provisional nature of the payment before the funds transferis initiated, (ii) the beneficiary, the beneficiary's bank and theoriginator'sbankagreed to be bound by the rule, and (iii) the beneficiary's bank didnot receive payment of the payment order that it accepted. If the beneficiaryis obliged to refund payment to the beneficiary's bank, acceptance of the paymentorder by the beneficiary's bank is nullified and no payment by the originatorof the funds transfer to the beneficiary occurs under Section4A-406.(e) This subsection appliesto afunds transferthat includes apaymentordertransmitted over afunds-transfersystemthat (i) nets obligations multilaterally among participants, and(ii) has in effect a loss-sharing agreement among participants for the purposeof providing funds necessary to complete settlement of the obligations of oneor more participants that do not meet their settlement obligations. Ifthebeneficiary's bankin the funds transferaccepts a payment order and the system fails to complete settlement pursuantto its rules with respect to any payment order in the funds transfer, (i) theacceptance by the beneficiary's bank is nullified and no person has any rightor obligation based on the acceptance, (ii) the beneficiary's bank is entitledto recover payment from thebeneficiary, (iii) nopayment by theoriginatorto the beneficiary occursunder Section4A-406, and (iv) subject to Section4A-402(e),eachsenderin the funds transfer is excused from itsobligation to pay its payment order under Section4A-402(c)becausethe funds transfer has not been completed.

§ 4A-406. PAYMENT BY ORIGINATOR TO BENEFICIARY; DISCHARGE OF UNDERLYING OBLIGATION.(a) Subject to Sections4A-211(e),4A-405(d),and4A-405(e), theoriginatorofafunds transferpays thebeneficiaryoftheoriginator'spayment order(i)at the time apayment orderfor the benefit of thebeneficiaryisaccepted by thebeneficiary's bankin the fundstransfer and (ii) in an amount equal to the amount of the order accepted bythe beneficiary's bank, but not more than the amount of the originator's order.(b) If payment under subsection(a) is made to satisfy an obligation, the obligation is discharged to the sameextent discharge would result from payment to thebeneficiaryofthe same amount in money, unless (i) the payment under subsection (a) was madeby a means prohibited by the contract of the beneficiary with respect to theobligation, (ii) the beneficiary, within a reasonable time after receiving noticeof receipt of the order by thebeneficiary's bank,notified theoriginatorof the beneficiary's refusalof the payment, (iii) funds with respect to the order were not withdrawn bythe beneficiary or applied to a debt of the beneficiary, and (iv) the beneficiarywould suffer a loss that could reasonably have been avoided if payment had beenmade by a means complying with the contract. If payment by the originatordoes not result in discharge under this section, the originator is subrogatedto the rights of the beneficiary to receive payment from the beneficiary's bankunder Section4A-404(a).(c) For the purpose of determiningwhether discharge of an obligation occurs under subsection (b), if thebeneficiary'sbankaccepts apayment orderin an amount equalto the amount of theoriginator'spayment order lesscharges of one or morereceiving banksin thefundstransfer, payment to thebeneficiaryis deemedto be in the amount of the originator's order unless upon demand by the beneficiarythe originator does not pay the beneficiary the amount of the deducted charges.(d) Rights of theoriginatororof thebeneficiaryof afundstransferunder this section may be varied only by agreement of the originatorand the beneficiary.



PART 5. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

§ 4A-501. VARIATION BY AGREEMENT AND EFFECT OF FUNDS-TRANSFER SYSTEM RULE.(a) Except as otherwise providedin this Article, the rights and obligations of a party to afundstransfermay be varied by agreement of the affected party.(b)"Funds-transfersystem rule" means a rule of an association ofbanks(i)governing transmission ofpayment ordersby meansof afunds-transfer systemof the associationor rights and obligations with respect to those orders, or (ii) to the extentthe rule governs rights and obligations between banks that are parties to afundstransferin which a Federal Reserve Bank, acting as anintermediarybank, sends a payment order to thebeneficiary'sbank. Except as otherwise provided in this Article, a funds-transfersystem rule governing rights and obligations between participating banks usingthe system may be effective even if the rule conflicts with this Article andindirectly affects another party to the funds transfer who does not consentto the rule. A funds-transfer system rule may also govern rights andobligations of parties other than participating banks using the system to theextent stated in Sections4A-404(c),4A-405(d),and4A-507(c).

§ 4A-502. CREDITOR PROCESS SERVED ON RECEIVING BANK; SETOFF BY BENEFICIARY's BANK.(a) As used in this section,"creditorprocess" means levy, attachment, garnishment, notice of lien, sequestration,or similar process issued by or on behalf of a creditor or other claimant withrespect to an account.(b) This subsection appliestocreditor processwith respect to anauthorizedaccountof thesenderof apaymentorderif thecreditor processis served onthereceiving bank. For the purpose of determiningrights with respect to the creditor process, if the receiving bank accepts thepayment order the balance in the authorized account is deemed to be reducedby the amount of the payment order to the extent the bank did not otherwisereceive payment of the order, unless the creditor process is served at a timeand in a manner affording thebanka reasonable opportunityto act on it before the bank accepts the payment order.(c) If abeneficiary'sbankhas received apayment orderfor paymentto thebeneficiary'saccount in thebank,the following rules apply:
(1) Thebankmay credit thebeneficiary'saccount. Theamount credited may be set off against an obligation owed by the beneficiaryto the bank or may be applied to satisfycreditorprocessserved on the bank with respect to the account.
(2) Thebankmay credit thebeneficiary'saccountand allow withdrawal of the amount credited unlesscreditorprocesswith respect to the account is served at a time and in a manneraffording the bank a reasonable opportunity to act to prevent withdrawal.
(3) Ifcreditor processwithrespect to thebeneficiary'saccount has been servedand thebankhas had a reasonable opportunity to act onit, the bank may not reject thepayment orderexceptfor a reason unrelated to the service of process.(d)Creditorprocesswith respect to a payment by theoriginatortothebeneficiarypursuant to afundstransfermay be served only on thebeneficiary'sbankwith respect to the debt owed by thatbanktothe beneficiary. Any other bank served with the creditor process is notobliged to act with respect to the process.

§ 4A-503. INJUNCTION OR RESTRAINING ORDER WITH RESPECT TO FUNDS TRANSFER.For proper cause and in compliance with applicable law,a court may restrain (i) a person from issuing apaymentorderto initiate afunds transfer, (ii) anoriginator'sbankfrom executing the payment order of theoriginator,or (iii) thebeneficiary's bankfrom releasingfunds to thebeneficiaryor the beneficiary fromwithdrawing the funds. A court may not otherwise restrain a person fromissuing a payment order, paying or receiving payment of a payment order, orotherwise acting with respect to a funds transfer.

§ 4A-504. ORDER IN WHICH ITEMS AND PAYMENT ORDERS MAY BE CHARGED TO ACCOUNT; ORDER OF WITHDRAWALS FROM ACCOUNT.(a) If areceivingbankhas received more than onepayment orderofthesenderor one or more payment orders and other itemsthat are payable from the sender's account, thebankmaycharge the sender's account with respect to the various orders and items inany sequence.(b) In determining whethera credit to an account has been withdrawn by the holder of the account or appliedto a debt of the holder of the account, credits first made to the account arefirst withdrawn or applied.

§ 4A-505. PRECLUSION OF OBJECTION TO DEBIT OF CUSTOMER's ACCOUNT.If areceiving bankhas receivedpayment from itscustomerwith respect to apaymentorderissued in the name of the customer assenderandaccepted by thebank, and the customer received notificationreasonably identifying the order, the customer is precluded from asserting thatthe bank is not entitled to retain the payment unless the customer notifiesthe bank of the customer's objection to the payment within one year after thenotification was received by the customer.

§ 4A-506. RATE OF INTEREST.(a) If, under this Article,areceiving bankis obliged to pay interest withrespect to apayment orderissued to thebank,the amount payable may be determined (i) by agreement of thesenderandreceiving bank, or (ii) by afunds-transfersystem ruleif the payment order is transmitted through afunds-transfersystem.(b) If the amount of interestis not determined by an agreement or rule as stated in subsection (a), the amountis calculated by multiplying the applicable Federal Funds rate by the amounton which interest is payable, and then multiplying the product by the numberof days for which interest is payable. The applicable Federal Funds rateis the average of the Federal Funds rates published by the Federal Reserve Bankof New York for each of the days for which interest is payable divided by 360. TheFederal Funds rate for any day on which a published rate is not available isthe same as the published rate for the next preceding day for which there isa published rate. If areceiving bankthataccepted apayment orderis required to refund paymentto thesenderof the order because thefundstransferwas not completed, but the failure to complete was not due to anyfault by thebank, the interest payable is reduced by apercentage equal to the reserve requirement on deposits of the receiving bank.

§ 4A-507. CHOICE OF LAW.(a) The following rules applyunless the affected parties otherwise agree or subsection (c) applies:
(1) The rights and obligations between thesenderofapayment orderand thereceivingbankare governed by the law of the jurisdiction in which the receivingbank is located.
(2) The rights and obligations between thebeneficiary'sbankand thebeneficiaryare governed by thelaw of the jurisdiction in which the beneficiary's bank is located.
(3) The issue of when payment is made pursuant toafunds transferby theoriginatortothebeneficiaryis governed by the law of the jurisdictionin which thebeneficiary's bankis located.(b) If the parties describedin each paragraph of subsection (a) have made an agreement selecting the lawof a particular jurisdiction to govern rights and obligations between each other,the law of that jurisdiction governs those rights and obligations, whether ornot thepayment orderor thefundstransferbears a reasonable relation to that jurisdiction.(c) Afunds-transfersystem rulemay select the law of a particular jurisdiction to govern (i)rights and obligations between participatingbankswithrespect topayment orderstransmitted or processedthrough the system, or (ii) the rights and obligations of some or all partiesto afunds transferany part of which is carriedout by means of the system. A choice of law made pursuant to clause (i)is binding on participating banks. A choice of law made pursuant to clause(ii) is binding on theoriginator, othersender,or areceiving bankhaving notice that thefunds-transfersystemmight be used in the funds transfer and of the choice of law bythe system when the originator, other sender, or receiving bank issued or accepteda payment order. Thebeneficiaryof a fundstransfer is bound by the choice of law if, when the funds transfer is initiated,the beneficiary has notice that the funds-transfer system might be used inthe funds transfer and of the choice of law by the system. The law ofa jurisdiction selected pursuant to this subsection may govern, whether ornot that law bears a reasonable relation to the matter in issue.(d) In the event of inconsistencybetween an agreement under subsection (b) and a choice-of-law rule under subsection(c), the agreement under subsection (b) prevails.(e) If afundstransferis made by use of more than onefunds-transfersystemand there is inconsistency between choice-of-law rules of the systems,the matter in issue is governed by the law of the selected jurisdiction thathas the most significant relationship to the matter in issue.

