PART 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS

§ 3-101. SHORT TITLE.This Article may be cited as Uniform Commercial Code --Negotiable Instruments.

§ 3-102. SUBJECT MATTER.(a) This Article applies tonegotiableinstruments. It does not apply to money, to payment orders governedby Article 4A, or to securities governed by Article 8.(b) If there is conflict betweenthis Article and Article 4 or 9, Articles 4 and 9 govern.(c) Regulations of the Boardof Governors of the Federal Reserve System and operating circulars of the FederalReserve Banks supersede any inconsistent provision of this Article to the extentof the inconsistency.

§ 3-103. DEFINITIONS.(a) In this Article:
(1)"Acceptor" meansadraweewho has accepted a draft.
(2)"Consumeraccount" means an account established by an individual primarily forpersonal, family, or household purposes.
(3)"Consumertransaction" means a transaction in which an individual incurs an obligationprimarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(4)"Drawee" meansa person ordered in a draft to make payment.
(5)"Drawer" meansa person who signs or is identified in adraftas a personordering payment.
(6) [reserved]
(7)"Maker" meansa person who signs or is identified in anoteas a personundertaking to pay.
(8)"Order" meansa written instruction to pay money signed by the person giving the instruction. Theinstruction may be addressed to any person, including the person giving theinstruction, or to one or more persons jointly or in the alternative but notin succession. An authorization to pay is not an order unless the personauthorized to pay is also instructed to pay.
(9)"Ordinarycare" in the case of a person engaged in business means observanceof reasonable commercial standards, prevailing in the area in which the personis located, with respect to the business in which the person is engaged. Inthe case of a bank that takes aninstrumentfor processingfor collection or payment by automated means, reasonable commercial standardsdo not require the bank to examine the instrument if the failure to examinedoes not violate the bank's prescribed procedures and the bank's proceduresdo not vary unreasonably from general banking usage not disapproved by thisArticle or Article 4.
(10)"Party" meansa party to aninstrument.
(11) "Principal obligor," withrespect to an instrument, means the accommodated party or any other party tothe instrument against whom a secondary obligor has recourse under this article.
(12)"Promise" meansa written undertaking to pay money signed by the person undertaking to pay. Anacknowledgment of an obligation by the obligor is not a promise unless the obligoralso undertakes to pay the obligation.
(13)"Prove" withrespect to a fact means to meet the burden of establishing the fact (Section1-201(b)(8)).
(14) [reserved]
(15)"Remitter" meansa person who purchases aninstrumentfrom itsissuerif the instrument is payable to an identified person other than the purchaser.
(16) "Remotely-created consumeritem" means an item drawn on a consumer account, which is not createdby the payor bank and does not bear a handwritten signature purporting to bethe signature of the drawer.
(17) "Secondary obligor," withrespect to an instrument, means (a) an indorser or an accommodation party, (b)a drawer having the obligation described in Section3-414(d),or (c) any other party to the instrument that has recourse against another partyto the instrument pursuant to Section3-116(b).(b) Other definitions applyingto this Article and the sections in which they appear are:
"Acceptance" Section3-409"Accommodated party" Section3-419"Accommodation party" Section3-419"Account" Section4-104"Alteration" Section3-407"Anomalous indorsement" Section3-205"Blank indorsement" Section3-205"Cashier's check" Section3-104"Certificate of deposit" Section3-104"Certified check" Section3-409"Check" Section3-104"Consideration" Section3-303"Draft" Section3-104"Holder in due course" Section3-302"Incomplete instrument" Section3-115"Indorsement" Section3-204"Indorser" Section3-204"Instrument" Section3-104"Issue" Section3-105"Issuer" Section3-105"Negotiable instrument" Section3-104"Negotiation" Section3-201"Note" Section3-104"Payable at a definite time" Section3-108"Payable on demand" Section3-108"Payable to bearer" Section3-109"Payable to order" Section3-109"Payment" Section3-602"Person entitled to enforce" Section3-301"Presentment" Section3-501"Reacquisition" Section3-207"Special indorsement" Section3-205"Teller's check" Section3-104"Transfer of instrument" Section3-203"Traveler's check" Section3-104"Value" Section3-303(c) The following definitionsin other Articles apply to this Article:
"Banking day" Section4-104"Clearing house" Section4-104"Collecting bank" Section4-105"Depositary bank" Section4-105"Documentary draft" Section4-104"Intermediary bank" Section4-105"Item" Section4-104"Payor bank" Section4-105"Suspends payments" Section4-104(d) In addition, Article 1contains general definitions and principles of construction and interpretationapplicable throughout this Article.

§ 3-104. NEGOTIABLE INSTRUMENT.(a) Except as provided insubsections (c) and (d),"negotiableinstrument" means an unconditionalpromiseorordertopay a fixed amount of money, with or without interest or other charges describedin the promise or order, if it:
(1) is payable to bearer or toorderatthe time it isissuedor first comes into possession ofa holder;
(2) is payable on demand or at a definite time; and
(3) does not state any other undertaking or instructionby the person promising or ordering payment to do any act in addition to thepayment of money, but thepromiseorordermaycontain (i) an undertaking or power to give, maintain, or protect collateralto secure payment, (ii) an authorization or power to the holder to confess judgmentor realize on or dispose of collateral, or (iii) a waiver of the benefit ofany law intended for the advantage or protection of an obligor.(b)"Instrument" meansanegotiable instrument.(c) Anorderthatmeets all of the requirements of subsection (a), except paragraph (1), and otherwisefalls within the definition of "check" in subsection (f) is anegotiableinstrumentand acheck.(d) Apromiseororderotherthan acheckis not aninstrumentif,at the time it isissuedor first comes into possessionof a holder, it contains a conspicuous statement, however expressed, to theeffect that the promise or order is not negotiable or is not an instrument governedby this Article.(e) Aninstrumentisa"note" if itis apromiseand is a"draft" ifit is anorder. If an instrument falls within thedefinition of both "note" and "draft," apersonentitled to enforcethe instrument may treat it as either.(f)"Check" means(i) adraft, other than a documentary draft, payable ondemand and drawn on a bank or (ii) acashier's checkorteller'scheck. Aninstrumentmay be acheckeventhough it is described on its face by another term, such as "money order."(g)"Cashier'scheck" means adraftwith respect to whichthedraweranddraweeare the samebank or branches of the same bank.(h)"Teller'scheck" means adraftdrawn by a bank (i) onanother bank, or (ii) payable at or through a bank.(i)"Traveler'scheck" means aninstrumentthat (i) ispayable on demand, (ii) is drawn on or payable at or through a bank, (iii)is designated by the term "traveler's check" or by a substantiallysimilar term, and (iv) requires, as a condition to payment, a countersignatureby a person whose specimen signature appears on the instrument.(j)"Certificateof deposit" means aninstrumentcontainingan acknowledgment by a bank that a sum of money has been received by the bankand apromiseby the bank to repay the sum of money. Acertificate of deposit is anoteof the bank.

§ 3-105. ISSUE OF INSTRUMENT.(a)"Issue" meansthe first delivery of aninstrumentby themakerordrawer,whether to a holder or nonholder, for the purpose of giving rights on the instrumentto any person.(b) An unissuedinstrument,or an unissuedincomplete instrumentthatis completed, is binding on themakerordrawer,but nonissuance is a defense. An instrument that is conditionally issuedor is issued for a special purpose is binding on the maker or drawer, but failureof the condition or special purpose to be fulfilled is a defense.(c)"Issuer" appliestoissuedand unissuedinstrumentsandmeans amakerordrawerof an instrument.

§ 3-106. UNCONDITIONAL PROMISE OR ORDER.(a) Except as provided inthis section, for the purposes of Section3-104(a), apromiseororderisunconditional unless it states (i) an express condition to payment, (ii) thatthe promise or order is subject to or governed by another record, or (iii) thatrights or obligations with respect to the promise or order are stated in anotherrecord. A reference to another record does not of itself make the promiseor order conditional.(b) Apromiseororderisnot made conditional (i) by a reference to another record for a statement ofrights with respect to collateral, prepayment, or acceleration, or (ii) becausepayment is limited to resort to a particular fund or source.(c) If apromiseororderrequires,as a condition to payment, a countersignature by a person whose specimen signatureappears on the promise or order, the condition does not make the promise ororder conditional for the purposes of Section3-104(a). Ifthe person whose specimen signature appears on aninstrumentfailsto countersign the instrument, the failure to countersign is a defense to theobligation of theissuer, but the failure does not preventa transferee of the instrument from becoming a holder of the instrument.(d) If apromiseororderatthe time it isissuedor first comes into possession ofa holder contains a statement, required by applicable statutory or administrativelaw, to the effect that the rights of a holder or transferee are subject toclaims or defenses that theissuercould assert againstthe original payee, the promise or order is not thereby made conditional forthe purposes of Section3-104(a); but if the promiseor order is aninstrument, there cannot be aholderin due courseof the instrument.

§ 3-107. INSTRUMENT PAYABLE IN FOREIGN MONEY.Unless theinstrumentotherwiseprovides, an instrument that states the amount payable in foreign money maybe paid in the foreign money or in an equivalent amount in dollars calculatedby using the current bank-offered spot rate at the place of payment for thepurchase of dollars on the day on which the instrument is paid.

§ 3-108. PAYABLE ON DEMAND OR AT DEFINITE TIME.(a) Apromiseororderis"payableon demand" if it (i) states that it is payable on demand or atsight, or otherwise indicates that it is payable at the will of the holder,or (ii) does not state any time of payment.(b) Apromiseororderis"payableat a definite time" if it is payable on elapse of a definite periodof time after sight oracceptanceor at a fixed dateor dates or at a time or times readily ascertainable at the time the promiseor order isissued, subject to rights of (i) prepayment,(ii) acceleration, (iii) extension at the option of the holder, or (iv) extensionto a further definite time at the option of themakeroracceptororautomatically upon or after a specified act or event.(c) If aninstrument,payable at a fixed date, is also payable upon demand made before the fixed date,the instrument is payable on demand until the fixed date and, if demand forpayment is not made before that date, becomes payable at a definite time onthe fixed date.

§ 3-109. PAYABLE TO BEARER OR TO ORDER.(a) Apromiseororderispayable to bearer if it:
(1) states that it is payable to bearer or to theorderofbearer or otherwise indicates that the person in possession of thepromiseororder is entitled to payment;
(2) does not state a payee; or
(3) states that it is payable to or to theorderofcash or otherwise indicates that it is not payable to an identified person.(b) Apromiseororderthatis not payable to bearer is payable to order if it is payable (i) to the orderof an identified person or (ii) to an identified person or order. A promiseor order that is payable to order is payable to the identified person.(c) Aninstrumentpayableto bearer may become payable to an identified person if it is specially indorsedpursuant to Section3-205(a). An instrument payableto an identified person may become payable to bearer if it is indorsed in blankpursuant to Section3-205(b).

§ 3-110. IDENTIFICATION OF PERSON TO WHOM INSTRUMENT IS PAYABLE.(a) The person to whom aninstrumentisinitially payable is determined by the intent of the person, whether or notauthorized, signing as, or in the name or behalf of, theissuerofthe instrument. The instrument is payable to the person intended by thesigner even if that person is identified in the instrument by a name or otheridentification that is not that of the intended person. If more than oneperson signs in the name or behalf of the issuer of an instrument and all thesigners do not intend the same person as payee, the instrument is payable toany person intended by one or more of the signers.(b) If the signature of theissuerofan instrument is made by automated means, such as a check-writing machine, thepayee of the instrument is determined by the intent of the person who suppliedthe name or identification of the payee, whether or not authorized to do so.(c) A person to whom aninstrumentispayable may be identified in any way, including by name, identifying number,office, or account number. For the purpose of determining the holder ofan instrument, the following rules apply:
(1) If aninstrumentispayable to an account and the account is identified only by number, the instrumentis payable to the person to whom the account is payable. If an instrumentis payable to an account identified by number and by the name of a person, theinstrument is payable to the named person, whether or not that person is theowner of the account identified by number.
(2) If aninstrumentispayable to:
(i) a trust, an estate, or a person described as trusteeor representative of a trust or estate, theinstrumentispayable to the trustee, the representative, or a successor of either, whetheror not the beneficiary or estate is also named;(ii) a person described as agent or similar representativeof a named or identified person, theinstrumentispayable to therepresented person, the representative,or a successor of the representative;(iii) a fund or organization that is not a legal entity,theinstrumentis payable to a representative of themembers of the fund or organization; or(iv) an office or to a person described as holding anoffice, theinstrumentis payable to the named person,the incumbent of the office, or a successor to the incumbent.(d) If aninstrumentispayable to two or more persons alternatively, it is payable to any of them andmay be negotiated, discharged, or enforced by any or all of them in possessionof the instrument. If an instrument is payable to two or more personsnot alternatively, it is payable to all of them and may be negotiated, discharged,or enforced only by all of them. If an instrument payable to two or morepersons is ambiguous as to whether it is payable to the persons alternatively,the instrument is payable to the persons alternatively.

§ 3-111. PLACE OF PAYMENT.Except as otherwise provided for items in Article 4, aninstrumentispayable at the place of payment stated in the instrument. If no placeof payment is stated, an instrument is payable at the address of thedraweeormakerstatedin the instrument. If no address is stated, the place of payment is theplace of business of the drawee or maker. If a drawee or maker has morethan one place of business, the place of payment is any place of business ofthe drawee or maker chosen by thepersonentitled to enforcethe instrument. If the drawee or maker has noplace of business, the place of payment is the residence of the drawee or maker.

§ 3-112. INTEREST.(a) Unless otherwise providedin theinstrument, (i) an instrument is not payablewith interest, and (ii) interest on an interest-bearing instrument is payablefrom the date of the instrument.(b) Interest may be statedin aninstrumentas a fixed or variable amount ofmoney or it may be expressed as a fixed or variable rate or rates. Theamount or rate of interest may be stated or described in the instrument in anymanner and may require reference to information not contained in the instrument. Ifan instrument provides for interest, but the amount of interest payable cannotbe ascertained from the description, interest is payable at the judgment ratein effect at the place of payment of the instrument and at the time interestfirst accrues.

§ 3-113. DATE OF INSTRUMENT.(a) Aninstrumentmaybe antedated or postdated. The date stated determines the time of paymentif the instrument is payable at a fixed period after date. Except as providedin Section4-401(c),an instrument payable on demand is not payable before the date of the instrument.(b) If aninstrumentisundated, its date is the date of itsissueor, in the caseof an unissued instrument, the date it first comes into possession of a holder.

§ 3-114. CONTRADICTORY TERMS OF INSTRUMENT.If aninstrumentcontains contradictoryterms, typewritten terms prevail over printed terms, handwritten terms prevailover both, and words prevail over numbers.

§ 3-115. INCOMPLETE INSTRUMENT.(a)"Incompleteinstrument" means a signed writing, whether or notissuedbythe signer, the contents of which show at the time of signing that it is incompletebut that the signer intended it to be completed by the addition of words ornumbers.(b) Subject to subsection(c), if an incomplete instrument is aninstrumentunderSection3-104, it may be enforced according to its termsif it is not completed, or according to its terms as augmented by completion. Ifan incomplete instrument is not an instrument under Section3-104,but, after completion, the requirements of Section3-104aremet, the instrument may be enforced according to its terms as augmented by completion.(c) If words or numbers areadded to an incomplete instrument without authority of the signer, there isanalterationof the incomplete instrument under Section3-407.(d) The burden of establishingthat words or numbers were added to an incomplete instrument without authorityof the signer is on the person asserting the lack of authority.

§ 3-116. JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY; CONTRIBUTION.(a) Except as otherwise providedin theinstrument, two or more persons who have thesame liability on an instrument asmakers,drawers,acceptors,indorserswhoindorse as joint payees, oranomalous indorsersarejointly and severally liable in the capacity in which they sign.(b) Except as provided inSection3-419(e)or by agreement of the affected parties,apartyhaving joint and several liability who pays theinstrumentisentitled to receive from any party having the same joint and several liabilitycontribution in accordance with applicable law.

§ 3-117. OTHER AGREEMENTS AFFECTING INSTRUMENT.Subject to applicable law regarding exclusion of proofof contemporaneous or previous agreements, the obligation of apartytoaninstrumentto pay the instrument may be modified,supplemented, or nullified by a separate agreement of the obligor and apersonentitled to enforcethe instrument, if the instrument isissuedorthe obligation is incurred in reliance on the agreement or as part of the sametransaction giving rise to the agreement. To the extent an obligationis modified, supplemented, or nullified by an agreement under this section,the agreement is a defense to the obligation.

§ 3-118. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.(a) Except as provided insubsection (e), an action to enforce the obligation of apartytopay anotepayable at a definite time must be commencedwithin six years after the due date or dates stated in the note or, if a duedate is accelerated, within six years after the accelerated due date.(b) Except as provided insubsection (d) or (e), if demand for payment is made to themakerofanotepayable on demand, an action to enforce the obligationof apartyto pay the note must be commenced within sixyears after the demand. If no demand for payment is made to the maker,an action to enforce the note is barred if neither principal nor interest onthe note has been paid for a continuous period of 10 years.(c) Except as provided insubsection (d), an action to enforce the obligation of apartytoan unaccepteddraftto pay the draft must be commencedwithin three years after dishonor of the draft or 10 years after the date ofthe draft, whichever period expires first.(d) An action to enforce theobligation of theacceptorof acertifiedcheckor theissuerof ateller'scheck,cashier's check, ortraveler'scheckmust be commenced within three years after demand for payment is madeto the acceptor or issuer, as the case may be.(e) An action to enforce theobligation of apartyto acertificateof depositto pay theinstrumentmust be commencedwithin six years after demand for payment is made to themaker,but if the instrument states a due date and the maker is not required to paybefore that date, the six-year period begins when a demand for payment is ineffect and the due date has passed.(f) An action to enforce theobligation of apartyto pay an accepteddraft,other than acertified check, must be commenced(i) within six years after the due date or dates stated in the draft oracceptanceifthe obligation of theacceptoris payable at a definitetime, or (ii) within six years after the date of the acceptance if the obligationof the acceptor is payable on demand.(g) Unless governed by otherlaw regarding claims for indemnity or contribution, an action (i) for conversionof aninstrument, for money had and received, or likeaction based on conversion, (ii) for breach of warranty, or (iii) to enforcean obligation, duty, or right arising under this Article and not governed bythis section must be commenced within three years after the [cause of action]accrues.

§ 3-119. NOTICE OF RIGHT TO DEFEND ACTION.In an action for breach of an obligation for which a thirdperson is answerable over pursuant to this Article or Article 4, the defendantmay give the third person notice of the litigation in a record, and the personnotified may then give similar notice to any other person who is answerableover. If the notice states (i) that the person notified may come in anddefend and (ii) that failure to do so will bind the person notified in an actionlater brought by the person giving the notice as to any determination of factcommon to the two litigations, the person notified is so bound unless afterseasonable receipt of the notice the person notified does come in and defend.



PART 2. NEGOTIATION, TRANSFER, AND INDORSEMENT

§ 3-201. NEGOTIATION.(a)"Negotiation" meansa transfer of possession, whether voluntary or involuntary, of aninstrumentbya person other than theissuerto a person who therebybecomes its holder.(b) Except fornegotiationbyaremitter, if aninstrumentispayable to an identified person, negotiation requires transfer of possessionof the instrument and itsindorsementby the holder. Ifan instrument is payable to bearer, it may be negotiated by transfer of possessionalone.

§ 3-202. NEGOTIATION SUBJECT TO RESCISSION.(a) Negotiation is effectiveeven if obtained (i) from an infant, a corporation exceeding its powers, ora person without capacity, (ii) by fraud, duress, or mistake, or (iii) in breachof duty or as part of an illegal transaction.(b) To the extent permittedby other law,negotiationmay be rescinded or maybe subject to other remedies, but those remedies may not be asserted againsta subsequentholder in due courseor a personpaying theinstrumentingoodfaithand without knowledge of facts that are a basis for rescission orother remedy.

§ 3-203. TRANSFER OF INSTRUMENT; RIGHTS ACQUIRED BY TRANSFER.(a) Aninstrumentistransferred when it is delivered by a person other than itsissuerfor the purpose of giving to the person receiving delivery the right to enforcethe instrument.(b) Transfer of aninstrument,whether or not the transfer is anegotiation, vestsin the transferee any right of the transferor to enforce the instrument, includingany right as aholder in due course, but thetransferee cannot acquire rights of a holder in due course by a transfer, directlyor indirectly, from a holder in due course if the transferee engaged in fraudor illegality affecting the instrument.(c) Unless otherwise agreed,if aninstrumentis transferred for value and thetransferee does not become a holder because of lack ofindorsementbythe transferor, the transferee has a specifically enforceable right to the unqualifiedindorsement of the transferor, butnegotiationofthe instrument does not occur until the indorsement is made.(d) If a transferor purportsto transfer less than the entireinstrument,negotiationofthe instrument does not occur. The transferee obtains no rights underthis Article and has only the rights of a partial assignee.

§ 3-204. INDORSEMENT.(a)"Indorsement" meansa signature, other than that of a signer asmaker,drawer,oracceptor, that alone or accompanied by other wordsis made on aninstrumentfor the purpose of (i) negotiatingthe instrument, (ii) restricting payment of the instrument, or (iii) incurringindorser'sliabilityon the instrument, but regardless of the intent of the signer, a signature andits accompanying words is an indorsement unless the accompanying words, termsof the instrument, place of the signature, or other circumstances unambiguouslyindicate that the signature was made for a purpose other than indorsement. Forthe purpose of determining whether a signature is made on an instrument, a paperaffixed to the instrument is a part of the instrument.(b)"Indorser" meansa person who makes anindorsement.(c) For the purpose of determiningwhether the transferee of aninstrumentis a holder,an indorsement that transfers a security interest in the instrument is effectiveas an unqualified indorsement of the instrument.(d) If aninstrumentispayable to a holder under a name that is not the name of the holder, indorsementmay be made by the holder in the name stated in the instrument or in the holder'sname or both, but signature in both names may be required by a person payingor taking the instrument for value or collection.

§ 3-205. SPECIAL INDORSEMENT; BLANK INDORSEMENT; ANOMALOUS INDORSEMENT.(a) If anindorsementismade by the holder of aninstrument, whether payableto an identified person or payable to bearer, and the indorsement identifiesa person to whom it makes the instrument payable, it is a"specialindorsement." When specially indorsed, an instrument becomespayable to the identified person and may be negotiated only by the indorsementof that person. The principles stated in Section3-110applyto special indorsements.(b) If anindorsementismade by the holder of aninstrumentand it is nota special indorsement, it is a"blankindorsement." When indorsed in blank, an instrument becomespayable to bearer and may be negotiated by transfer of possession alone untilspecially indorsed.(c) The holder may converta blank indorsement that consists only of a signature into a special indorsementby writing, above the signature of theindorser, wordsidentifying the person to whom theinstrumentis madepayable.(d)"Anomalousindorsement" means anindorsementmadeby a person who is not the holder of theinstrument. Ananomalous indorsement does not affect the manner in which the instrument maybe negotiated.

§ 3-206. RESTRICTIVE INDORSEMENT.(a) Anindorsementlimitingpayment to a particular person or otherwise prohibiting further transfer ornegotiationoftheinstrumentis not effective to prevent furthertransfer or negotiation of the instrument.(b) Anindorsementstatinga condition to the right of the indorsee to receive payment does not affectthe right of the indorsee to enforce theinstrument. Aperson paying the instrument or taking it for value or collection may disregardthe condition, and the rights and liabilities of that person are not affectedby whether the condition has been fulfilled.(c) If aninstrumentbearsanindorsement(i) described in Section4-201(b),or (ii) in blank or to a particular bank using the words "for deposit," "forcollection," or other words indicating a purpose of having the instrumentcollected by a bank for theindorseror for a particularaccount, the following rules apply:
(1) A person, other than a bank, who purchases theinstrumentwhenso indorsed converts the instrument unless the amount paid for the instrumentis received by theindorseror applied consistentlywith theindorsement.
(2) A depositary bank that purchases theinstrumentortakes it for collection when so indorsed converts the instrument unless theamount paid by the bank with respect to the instrument is received by theindorserorapplied consistently with theindorsement.
(3) A payor bank that is also the depositary bankor that takes theinstrumentfor immediate paymentover the counter from a person other than a collecting bank converts the instrumentunless the proceeds of the instrument are received by theindorserorapplied consistently with theindorsement.
(4) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (3),a payor bank or intermediary bank may disregard theindorsementandis not liable if the proceeds of theinstrumentarenot received by theindorseror applied consistentlywith the indorsement.(d) Except for anindorsementcoveredby subsection (c), if aninstrumentbears an indorsementusing words to the effect that payment is to be made to the indorsee as agent,trustee, or otherfiduciaryfor the benefit of theindorseroranother person, the following rules apply:
(1) Unless there is notice of breach offiduciarydutyas provided in Section3-307, a person who purchases theinstrumentfromthe indorsee or takes the instrument from the indorsee for collection or paymentmay pay the proceeds of payment or the value given for the instrument to theindorsee without regard to whether the indorsee violates a fiduciary duty totheindorser.
(2) A subsequent transferee of theinstrumentorperson who pays the instrument is neither given notice nor otherwise affectedby the restriction in theindorsementunless thetransferee or payor knows that thefiduciarydealtwith the instrument or its proceeds in breach of fiduciary duty.(e) The presence on aninstrumentofanindorsementto which this section applies doesnot prevent a purchaser of the instrument from becoming aholderin due courseof the instrument unless the purchaser is a converter undersubsection (c) or has notice or knowledge of breach offiduciarydutyas stated in subsection (d).(f) In an action to enforcethe obligation of apartyto pay theinstrument,the obligor has a defense if payment would violate anindorsementtowhich this section applies and the payment is not permitted by this section.

§ 3-207. REACQUISITION.Reacquisition of aninstrumentoccursif it is transferred to a former holder, bynegotiationorotherwise. A former holder who reacquires the instrument may cancelindorsementsmadeafter the reacquirer first became a holder of the instrument. If the cancellationcauses the instrument to be payable to the reacquirer or to bearer, the reacquirermay negotiate the instrument. Anindorserwhoseindorsement is canceled is discharged, and the discharge is effective againstany subsequent holder.



PART 3. ENFORCEMENT OF INSTRUMENTS

§ 3-301. PERSON ENTITLED TO ENFORCE INSTRUMENT."Personentitled to enforce" aninstrumentmeans(i) the holder of the instrument, (ii) a nonholder in possession of the instrumentwho has the rights of a holder, or (iii) a person not in possession of theinstrument who is entitled to enforce the instrument pursuant to Section 3-309or3-418(d). A person may be a person entitledto enforce the instrument even though the person is not the owner of the instrumentor is in wrongful possession of the instrument.

§ 3-302. HOLDER IN DUE COURSE.(a) Subject to subsection(c) and Section3-106(d),"holderin due course" means the holder of aninstrumentif:
(1) theinstrumentwhenissuedornegotiated to the holder does not bear such apparent evidence of forgery oralterationoris not otherwise so irregular or incomplete as to call into question its authenticity;and
(2) the holder took theinstrument(i)for value, (ii) ingood faith, (iii) without noticethat the instrument is overdue or has been dishonored or that there is an uncureddefault with respect to payment of another instrumentissuedaspart of the same series, (iv) without notice that the instrument contains anunauthorized signature or has been altered, (v) without notice of any claimto the instrument described in Section3-306, and (vi)without notice that anypartyhas a defense or claim inrecoupment described in Section3-305(a).(b) Notice of discharge ofaparty, other than discharge in an insolvency proceeding,is not notice of a defense under subsection (a), but discharge is effectiveagainst a person who became aholder in due coursewithnotice of the discharge. Public filing or recording of a document doesnot of itself constitute notice of a defense, claim in recoupment, or claimto theinstrument.(c) Except to the extent atransferor or predecessor in interest has rights as aholderin due course, a person does not acquire rights of a holder in due courseof aninstrumenttaken (i) by legal process or bypurchase in an execution, bankruptcy, or creditor's sale or similar proceeding,(ii) by purchase as part of a bulk transaction not in ordinary course of businessof the transferor, or (iii) as the successor in interest to an estate or otherorganization.(d) If, under Section3-303(a)
(1),thepromiseof performance that is theconsiderationforaninstrumenthas been partially performed, the holdermay assert rights as aholder in due courseofthe instrument only to the fraction of the amount payable under the instrumentequal to the value of the partial performance divided by the value of the promisedperformance.(e) If (i) thepersonentitled to enforceaninstrumenthas only asecurity interest in the instrument and (ii) the person obliged to pay theinstrument has a defense, claim in recoupment, or claim to the instrument thatmay be asserted against the person who granted the security interest, the personentitled to enforce the instrument may assert rights as aholderin due courseonly to an amount payable under the instrument which, atthe time of enforcement of the instrument, does not exceed the amount of theunpaid obligation secured.(f) To be effective, noticemust be received at a time and in a manner that gives a reasonable opportunityto act on it.(g) This section is subjectto any law limiting status as aholder in due courseinparticular classes of transactions.

§ 3-303. VALUE AND CONSIDERATION.(a) Aninstrumentisissuedortransferred for value if:
(1) theinstrumentisissuedortransferred for apromiseof performance, to the extentthe promise has been performed;
(2) the transferee acquires a security interest or otherlien in theinstrumentother than a lien obtainedby judicial proceeding;
(3) theinstrumentisissuedortransferred as payment of, or as security for, an antecedent claim against anyperson, whether or not the claim is due;
(4) theinstrumentisissuedortransferred in exchange for anegotiable instrument;or
(5) theinstrumentisissuedortransferred in exchange for the incurring of an irrevocable obligation to athirdpartyby the person taking the instrument.(b)"Consideration" meansany consideration sufficient to support a simple contract. Thedrawerormakerofaninstrumenthas a defense if the instrument isissuedwithoutconsideration. If an instrument is issued for apromiseofperformance, theissuerhas a defense to the extent performanceof the promise is due and the promise has not been performed. If an instrumentis issued for value as stated in subsection (a), the instrument is also issuedfor consideration.

§ 3-304. OVERDUE INSTRUMENT.(a) Aninstrumentpayableon demand becomes overdue at the earliest of the following times:
(1) on the day after the day demand for payment is dulymade;
(2) if theinstrumentis acheck,90 days after its date; or
(3) if theinstrumentis notacheck, when the instrument has been outstanding for aperiod of time after its date which is unreasonably long under the circumstancesof the particular case in light of the nature of the instrument and usage ofthe trade.(b) With respect to aninstrumentpayableat a definite time the following rules apply:
(1) If the principal is payable in installmentsand a due date has not been accelerated, theinstrumentbecomesoverdue upon default under the instrument for nonpayment of an installment,and the instrument remains overdue until the default is cured.
(2) If the principal is not payable in installmentsand the due date has not been accelerated, theinstrumentbecomesoverdue on the day after the due date.
(3) If a due date with respect to principal hasbeen accelerated, theinstrumentbecomes overdue onthe day after the accelerated due date.(c) Unless the due date ofprincipal has been accelerated, aninstrumentdoesnot become overdue if there is default in payment of interest but no defaultin payment of principal.

§ 3-305. DEFENSES AND CLAIMS IN RECOUPMENT.(a) Except as otherwise providedin this section, the right to enforce the obligation of apartytopay aninstrumentis subject to the following:
(1) a defense of the obligor based on (i) infancy of theobligor to the extent it is a defense to a simple contract, (ii) duress, lackof legal capacity, or illegality of the transaction which, under other law,nullifies the obligation of the obligor, (iii) fraud that induced the obligorto sign theinstrumentwith neither knowledge norreasonable opportunity to learn of its character or its essential terms, or(iv) discharge of the obligor in insolvency proceedings;
(2) a defense of the obligor stated in another sectionof this Article or a defense of the obligor that would be available if thepersonentitled to enforcetheinstrumentwere enforcinga right to payment under a simple contract; and
(3) a claim in recoupment of the obligor against the originalpayee of theinstrumentif the claim arose from thetransaction that gave rise to the instrument; but the claim of the obligor maybe asserted against a transferee of the instrument only to reduce the amountowing on the instrument at the time the action is brought.(b) The right of aholderin due courseto enforce the obligation of apartytopay theinstrumentis subject to defenses of theobligor stated in subsection (a)(1), but is not subject to defenses of theobligor stated in subsection (a)(2) or claims in recoupment stated in subsection(a)(3) against a person other than the holder.(c) Except as stated in subsection(d), in an action to enforce the obligation of apartytopay theinstrument, the obligor may not assert againsttheperson entitled to enforcethe instrumenta defense, claim in recoupment, or claim to the instrument (Section3-306)of another person, but the other person's claim to the instrument may be assertedby the obligor if the other person is joined in the action and personally assertsthe claim against the person entitled to enforce the instrument. An obligoris not obliged to pay the instrument if the person seeking enforcement of theinstrument does not have rights of aholder indue courseand the obligorprovesthat the instrumentis a lost or stolen instrument.(d) In an action to enforcethe obligation of an accommodationpartyto pay aninstrument,the accommodation party may assert against thepersonentitled to enforcethe instrument any defense or claim in recoupment undersubsection (a) that the accommodated party could assert against the person entitledto enforce the instrument, except the defenses of discharge in insolvency proceedings,infancy, and lack of legal capacity.(e) In aconsumertransaction, if law other than this article requires that an instrumentinclude a statement to the effect that the rights of a holder or transfereeare subject to a claim or defense that the issuer could assert against theoriginal payee, and the instrument does not include such a statement: (1) theinstrument has the same effect as if the instrument included such a statement;
(2) the issuer may assert against the holder or transferee all claims and defensesthat would have been available if the instrument included such a statement;and (3) the extent to which claims may be asserted against the holder or transfereeis determined as if the instrument included such a statement.(f) This section is subject to lawother than this article that establishes a different rule forconsumertransactions.

§ 3-306. CLAIMS TO AN INSTRUMENT.A person taking aninstrument,other than a person having rights of aholder indue course, is subject to a claim of a property or possessory right in theinstrument or its proceeds, including a claim to rescind anegotiationandto recover the instrument or its proceeds. A person having rights of a holderin due course takes free of the claim to the instrument.

§ 3-307. NOTICE OF BREACH OF FIDUCIARY DUTY.(a) In this section:
(1)"Fiduciary" meansan agent, trustee, partner, corporate officer or director, or other representativeowing a fiduciary duty with respect to aninstrument.
(2)"Representedperson" means the principal, beneficiary, partnership, corporation,or other person to whom the duty stated in paragraph (1) is owed.(b) If (i) aninstrumentistaken from a fiduciary for payment or collection or for value, (ii) the takerhas knowledge of the fiduciary status of the fiduciary, and (iii) the representedperson makes a claim to the instrument or its proceeds on the basis that thetransaction of the fiduciary is a breach of fiduciary duty, the following rulesapply:
(1) Notice of breach of fiduciary duty by the fiduciaryis notice of the claim of the represented person.
(2) In the case of aninstrumentpayableto the represented person or the fiduciary as such, the taker has notice ofthe breach of fiduciary duty if the instrument is (i) taken in payment of oras security for a debt known by the taker to be the personal debt of the fiduciary,(ii) taken in a transaction known by the taker to be for the personal benefitof the fiduciary, or (iii) deposited to an account other than an account ofthe fiduciary, as such, or an account of the represented person.
(3) If aninstrumentisissuedbythe represented person or the fiduciary as such, and made payable to the fiduciarypersonally, the taker does not have notice of the breach of fiduciary duty unlessthe taker knows of the breach of fiduciary duty.
(4) If aninstrumentisissuedbythe represented person or the fiduciary as such, to the taker as payee, thetaker has notice of the breach of fiduciary duty if the instrument is (i) takenin payment of or as security for a debt known by the taker to be the personaldebt of the fiduciary, (ii) taken in a transaction known by the taker to befor the personal benefit of the fiduciary, or (iii) deposited to an accountother than an account of the fiduciary, as such, or an account of the representedperson.

§ 3-308. PROOF OF SIGNATURES AND STATUS AS HOLDER IN DUE COURSE.(a) In an action with respectto aninstrument, the authenticity of, and authorityto make, each signature on the instrument is admitted unless specifically deniedin the pleadings. If the validity of a signature is denied in the pleadings,the burden of establishing validity is on the person claiming validity, butthe signature is presumed to be authentic and authorized unless the action isto enforce the liability of the purported signer and the signer is dead or incompetentat the time of trial of theissueof validity of the signature. Ifan action to enforce the instrument is brought against a person as the undisclosedprincipal of a person who signed the instrument as apartytothe instrument, the plaintiff has the burden of establishing that the defendantis liable on the instrument as arepresented personunderSection3-402(a).(b) If the validity of signaturesis admitted orprovedand there is compliance with subsection(a), a plaintiff producing theinstrumentis entitledto payment if the plaintiff proves entitlement to enforce the instrument underSection3-301, unless the defendant proves a defense orclaim in recoupment. If a defense or claim in recoupment is proved, theright to payment of the plaintiff is subject to the defense or claim, exceptto the extent the plaintiff proves that the plaintiff has rights of aholderin due coursewhich are not subject to the defense or claim.

§ 3-309. ENFORCEMENT OF LOST, DESTROYED, OR STOLEN INSTRUMENT.(a) A person not in possessionof aninstrumentis entitled to enforce the instrumentif:
(1) the person seeking to enforce the instrument(A) was entitled to enforce it the instrument when lossof possession occurred, or(B) has directly or indirectly acquired ownership of theinstrument from a person who was entitled to enforce the instrument when lossof possession occurred;
(2) the loss of possession was not the result of a transferby the person or a lawful seizure; and
(3) the person cannot reasonably obtain possession ofthe instrument because the instrument was destroyed, its whereabouts cannotbe determined, or it is in the wrongful possession of an unknown person or aperson that cannot be found or is not amenable to service of process.(b) A person seeking enforcementof aninstrumentunder subsection (a) mustprovetheterms of the instrument and the person's right to enforce the instrument. Ifthat proof is made, Section3-308applies to the caseas if the person seeking enforcement had produced the instrument. Thecourt may not enter judgment in favor of the person seeking enforcement unlessit finds that the person required to pay the instrument is adequately protectedagainst loss that might occur by reason of a claim by another person to enforcethe instrument. Adequate protection may be provided by any reasonablemeans.

§ 3-310. EFFECT OF INSTRUMENT ON OBLIGATION FOR WHICH TAKEN.(a) Unless otherwise agreed,if acertified check,cashier'scheck, orteller's checkis taken for an obligation,the obligation is discharged to the same extent discharge would result if anamount of money equal to the amount of theinstrumentweretaken in payment of the obligation. Discharge of the obligation does notaffect any liability that the obligor may have as anindorserofthe instrument.(b) Unless otherwise agreedand except as provided in subsection (a), if anoteor anuncertifiedcheckis taken for an obligation, the obligationis suspended to the same extent the obligation would be discharged if an amountof money equal to the amount of theinstrumentweretaken, and the following rules apply:
(1) In the case of an uncertifiedcheck,suspension of the obligation continues until dishonor of the check or untilit is paid or certified. Payment or certification of the check resultsin discharge of the obligation to the extent of the amount of the check.
(2) In the case of anote, suspensionof the obligation continues until dishonor of the note or until it is paid. Paymentof the note results in discharge of the obligation to the extent of the payment.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (4), if thecheckornoteisdishonored and the obligee of the obligation for which theinstrumentwastaken is theperson entitled to enforcetheinstrument, the obligee may enforce either the instrument or the obligation. Inthe case of an instrument of a third person which is negotiated to the obligeeby the obligor, discharge of the obligor on the instrument also discharges theobligation.
(4) If thepersonentitled to enforcetheinstrumenttaken foran obligation is a person other than the obligee, the obligee may not enforcethe obligation to the extent the obligation is suspended. If the obligeeis the person entitled to enforce the instrument but no longer has possessionof it because it was lost, stolen, or destroyed, the obligation may not beenforced to the extent of the amount payable on the instrument, and to thatextent the obligee's rights against the obligor are limited to enforcementof the instrument.(c) If aninstrumentotherthan one described in subsection (a) or (b) is taken for an obligation, theeffect is (i) that stated in subsection (a) if the instrument is one on whicha bank is liable asmakeroracceptor,or (ii) that stated in subsection (b) in any other case.

§ 3-311. ACCORD AND SATISFACTION BY USE OF INSTRUMENT.(a) If a person against whoma claim is assertedprovesthat (i) that person ingoodfaithtendered aninstrumentto the claimant asfull satisfaction of the claim, (ii) the amount of the claim was unliquidatedor subject to a bona fide dispute, and (iii) the claimant obtained payment ofthe instrument, the following subsections apply.(b) Unless subsection (c)applies, the claim is discharged if the person against whom the claim is assertedprovesthattheinstrumentor an accompanying written communicationcontained a conspicuous statement to the effect that the instrument was tenderedas full satisfaction of the claim.(c) Subject to subsection(d), a claim is not discharged under subsection (b) if either of the followingapplies:
(1) The claimant, if an organization,provesthat(i) within a reasonable time before the tender, the claimant sent a conspicuousstatement to the person against whom the claim is asserted that communicationsconcerning disputed debts, including aninstrumenttenderedas full satisfaction of a debt, are to be sent to a designated person, office,or place, and (ii) the instrument or accompanying communication was not receivedby that designated person, office, or place.
(2) The claimant, whether or not an organization,provesthatwithin 90 days after payment of theinstrument, theclaimant tendered repayment of the amount of the instrument to the person againstwhom the claim is asserted. This paragraph does not apply if the claimantis an organization that that sent a statement complying with paragraph (1)(i).(d) A claim is discharged if theperson against whom the claim is asserted proves that within a reasonable timebefore collection of the instrument was initiated, the claimant, or an agentof the claimant having direct responsibility with respect to the disputed obligation,knew that the instrument was tendered in full satisfaction of the claim.

§ 3-312. LOST, DESTROYED, OR STOLEN CASHIER'S CHECK, TELLER'S CHECK, OR CERTIFIED CHECK.(a) In this section:
(1) "Check" meansacashier's check,teller'scheck, orcertified check.
(2) "Claimant" meansa person who claims the right to receive the amount of acashier'scheck,teller's check, orcertifiedcheckthat was lost, destroyed, or stolen.
(3) "Declaration of loss" meansa statement, made in a record under penalty of perjury, to the effectthat (i) the declarer lost possession of a check, (ii) the declarer is thedrawerorpayee of the check, in the case of acertified check,or the remitter or payee of the check, in the case of acashier'scheckorteller's check, (iii) the loss of possessionwas not the result of a transfer by the declarer or a lawful seizure, and (iv)the declarer cannot reasonably obtain possession of the check because the checkwas destroyed, its whereabouts cannot be determined, or it is in the wrongfulpossession of an unknown person or a person that cannot be found or is not amenableto service of process.
(4) "Obligated bank" meansthe issuer of acashier's checkorteller'scheckor the acceptor of acertified check.(b) A claimant may asserta claim to the amount of a check by a communication to the obligated bank describingthe check with reasonable certainty and requesting payment of the amount ofthe check, if (i) the claimant is thedraweror payeeof acertified checkor theremitterorpayee of acashier's checkorteller'scheck, (ii) the communication contains or is accompanied by a declarationof loss of the claimant with respect to the check, (iii) the communication isreceived at a time and in a manner affording the bank a reasonable time to acton it before the check is paid, and (iv) the claimant provides reasonable identificationif requested by the obligated bank. Delivery of a declaration of lossis a warranty of the truth of the statements made in the declaration. Ifa claim is asserted in compliance with this subsection, the following rulesapply:
(1) The claim becomes enforceable at the later of(i) the time the claim is asserted, or (ii) the 90th day following the dateof the check, in the case of acashier's checkorteller'scheck, or the 90th day following the date of theacceptance,in the case of acertified check.
(2) Until the claim becomes enforceable, it hasno legal effect and the obligated bank may pay the check or, in the case ofateller's check, may permit thedraweetopay the check. Payment to apersonentitled to enforcethe check discharges all liability of the obligatedbank with respect to the check.
(3) If the claim becomes enforceable before thecheck is presented for payment, the obligated bank is not obliged to pay thecheck.
(4) When the claim becomes enforceable, the obligatedbank becomes obliged to pay the amount of the check to the claimant if paymentof the check has not been made to apersonentitled to enforcethe check. Subject to Section4-302(a)
(1),payment to the claimant discharges all liability of the obligated bank withrespect to the check.(c) If theobligatedbankpays the amount of a check to a claimant under subsection (b)(4) andthe check is presented for payment by a person having rights of aholderin due course, the claimant is obliged to (i) refund the payment to theobligated bank if the check is paid, or (ii) pay the amount of the check tothe person having rights of a holder in due course if the check is dishonored.(d) If a claimant has theright to assert a claim under subsection (b) and is also apersonentitled to enforceacashier's check,teller'scheck, orcertified checkwhich is lost, destroyed,or stolen, the claimant may assert rights with respect to the check either underthis section or Section3-309.



PART 4. LIABILITY OF PARTIES

§ 3-401. SIGNATURE.(a) A person is not liableon aninstrumentunless (i) the person signed theinstrument, or (ii) the person is represented by an agent or representativewho signed the instrument and the signature is binding on therepresentedpersonunder Section3-402.(b) A signature may be made(i) manually or by means of a device or machine, and (ii) by the use of anyname, including a trade or assumed name, or by a word, mark, or symbol executedor adopted by a person with present intention to authenticate a writing.

§ 3-402. SIGNATURE BY REPRESENTATIVE.(a) If a person acting, orpurporting to act, as a representative signs aninstrumentbysigning either the name of therepresented personorthe name of the signer, the represented person is bound by the signature tothe same extent the represented person would be bound if the signature wereon a simple contract. If the represented person is bound, the signatureof the representative is the "authorized signature of the represented person" andthe represented person is liable on the instrument, whether or not identifiedin the instrument.(b) If a representative signsthe name of the representative to aninstrumentandthe signature is an authorized signature of therepresentedperson, the following rules apply:
(1) If the form of the signature shows unambiguouslythat the signature is made on behalf of therepresentedpersonwho is identified in theinstrument, therepresentative is not liable on the instrument.
(2) Subject to subsection (c), if (i) the form ofthe signature does not show unambiguously that the signature is made in a representativecapacity or (ii) therepresented personisnot identified in theinstrument, the representativeis liable on the instrument to aholder in duecoursethat took the instrument without notice that the representative wasnot intended to be liable on the instrument. With respect to any otherperson, the representative is liable on the instrument unless the representativeprovesthatthe original parties did not intend the representative to be liable on the instrument.(c) If a representative signsthe name of the representative asdrawerof acheckwithoutindication of the representative status and the check is payable from an accountof therepresented personwho is identifiedon the check, the signer is not liable on the check if the signature is an authorizedsignature of the represented person.

§ 3-403. UNAUTHORIZED SIGNATURE.(a) Unless otherwise providedin this Article or Article 4, an unauthorized signature is ineffective exceptas the signature of the unauthorized signer in favor of a person who ingoodfaithpays theinstrumentor takes it for value. Anunauthorized signature may be ratified for all purposes of this Article.(b) If the signature of morethan one person is required to constitute the authorized signature of an organization,the signature of the organization is unauthorized if one of the required signaturesis lacking.(c) The civil or criminalliability of a person who makes an unauthorized signature is not affected byany provision of this Article which makes the unauthorized signature effectivefor the purposes of this Article.

§ 3-404. IMPOSTORS; FICTITIOUS PAYEES.(a) If an impostor, by useof the mails or otherwise, induces theissuerof aninstrumenttoissuetheinstrument to the impostor, or to a person acting in concert with the impostor,by impersonating the payee of the instrument or a person authorized to act forthe payee, anindorsementof the instrument by anyperson in the name of the payee is effective as the indorsement of the payeein favor of a person who, ingood faith, pays the instrumentor takes it for value or for collection.(b) If (i) a person whoseintent determines to whom aninstrumentis payable(Section3-110(a)or (b)) does not intend the personidentified as payee to have any interest in the instrument, or (ii) the personidentified as payee of an instrument is a fictitious person, the following rulesapply until the instrument is negotiated by specialindorsement:
(1) Any person in possession of theinstrumentisits holder.
(2) Anindorsementbyany person in the name of the payee stated in theinstrumentiseffective as the indorsement of the payee in favor of a person who, ingoodfaith, pays the instrument or takes it for value or for collection.(c) Under subsection (a) or(b), anindorsementis made in the name of a payeeif (i) it is made in a name substantially similar to that of the payee or (ii)theinstrument, whether or not indorsed, is depositedin a depositary bank to an account in a name substantially similar to that ofthe payee.(d) With respect to aninstrumenttowhich subsection (a) or (b) applies, if a person paying the instrument or takingit for value or for collection fails to exerciseordinarycarein paying or taking the instrument and that failure substantially contributesto loss resulting from payment of the instrument, the person bearing the lossmay recover from the person failing to exercise ordinary care to the extentthe failure to exercise ordinary care contributed to the loss.

§ 3-405. EMPLOYER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FRAUDULENT INDORSEMENT BY EMPLOYEE.(a) In this section:
(1) "Employee" includesan independent contractor and employee of an independent contractor retainedby the employer.
(2)"Fraudulentindorsement" means (i) in the case of aninstrumentpayableto the employer, a forgedindorsementpurportingto be that of the employer, or (ii) in the case of an instrument with respectto which the employer is theissuer, a forged indorsementpurporting to be that of the person identified as payee.
(3)"Responsibility" withrespect toinstrumentsmeans authority (i) to signor indorse instruments on behalf of the employer, (ii) to process instrumentsreceived by the employer for bookkeeping purposes, for deposit to an account,or for other disposition, (iii) to prepare or process instruments forissueinthe name of the employer, (iv) to supply information determining the names oraddresses of payees of instruments to be issued in the name of the employer,(v) to control the disposition of instruments to be issued in the name of theemployer, or (vi) to act otherwise with respect to instruments in a responsiblecapacity. "Responsibility" does not include authority that merelyallows an employee to have access to instruments or blank orincompleteinstrumentforms that are being stored or transported or are part of incomingor outgoing mail, or similar access.(b) For the purpose of determiningthe rights and liabilities of a person who, ingood faith,pays aninstrumentor takes it for value or for collection,if an employer entrusted an employee with responsibility with respect to theinstrument and the employee or a person acting in concert with the employeemakes afraudulent indorsementof the instrument,theindorsementis effective as the indorsement ofthe person to whom the instrument is payable if it is made in the name of thatperson. If the person paying the instrument or taking it for value orfor collection fails to exerciseordinary careinpaying or taking the instrument and that failure substantially contributes toloss resulting from the fraud, the person bearing the loss may recover fromthe person failing to exercise ordinary care to the extent the failure to exerciseordinary care contributed to the loss.(c) Under subsection (b),anindorsementis made in the name of the personto whom aninstrumentis payable if (i) it is madein a name substantially similar to the name of that person or (ii) the instrument,whether or not indorsed, is deposited in a depositary bank to an account ina name substantially similar to the name of that person.

§ 3-406. NEGLIGENCE CONTRIBUTING TO FORGED SIGNATURE OR ALTERATION OF INSTRUMENT.(a) A person whose failureto exerciseordinary caresubstantially contributesto analterationof aninstrumentorto the making of a forged signature on an instrument is precluded from assertingthe alteration or the forgery against a person who, ingoodfaith, pays the instrument or takes it for value or for collection.(b) Under subsection (a),if the person asserting the preclusion fails to exerciseordinarycarein paying or taking theinstrumentand thatfailure substantially contributes to loss, the loss is allocated between theperson precluded and the person asserting the preclusion according to the extentto which the failure of each to exercise ordinary care contributed to the loss.(c) Under subsection (a),the burden of proving failure to exerciseordinary careison the person asserting the preclusion. Under subsection (b), the burdenof proving failure to exercise ordinary care is on the person precluded.

§ 3-407. ALTERATION.(a)"Alteration" means(i) an unauthorized change in aninstrumentthat purportsto modify in any respect the obligation of aparty, or(ii) an unauthorized addition of words or numbers or other change to anincompleteinstrumentrelating to the obligation of a party.(b) Except as provided insubsection (c), an alteration fraudulently made discharges apartywhoseobligation is affected by the alteration unless that party assents or is precludedfrom asserting thealteration. No other alterationdischarges a party, and theinstrumentmay be enforcedaccording to its original terms.(c) A payor bank ordraweepayinga fraudulently alteredinstrumentor a person takingit for value, ingood faithand without notice of thealteration, may enforce rights with respect to the instrument (i) accordingto its original terms, or (ii) in the case of anincompleteinstrumentaltered by unauthorized completion, according to its terms ascompleted.

§ 3-408. DRAWEE NOT LIABLE ON UNACCEPTED DRAFT.Acheckor otherdraftdoesnot of itself operate as an assignment of funds in the hands of thedraweeavailablefor its payment, and the drawee is not liable on theinstrumentuntilthe drawee accepts it.

§ 3-409. ACCEPTANCE OF DRAFT; CERTIFIED CHECK.(a)"Acceptance" meansthedrawee'ssigned agreement to pay adraftaspresented. It must be written on the draft and may consist of the drawee'ssignature alone. Acceptance may be made at any time and becomes effectivewhen notification pursuant to instructions is given or the accepted draft isdelivered for the purpose of giving rights on the acceptance to any person.(b) Adraftmaybe accepted although it has not been signed by thedrawer,is otherwise incomplete, is overdue, or has been dishonored.(c) If adraftispayable at a fixed period after sight and theacceptorfailsto date the acceptance, the holder may complete the acceptance by supplyinga date ingood faith.(d)"Certifiedcheck" means acheckaccepted by the bankon which it is drawn. Acceptance may be made as stated in subsection(a) or by a writing on the check which indicates that the check is certified. Thedraweeofa check has no obligation to certify the check, and refusal to certify is notdishonor of the check.

§ 3-410. ACCEPTANCE VARYING DRAFT.(a) If the terms of adrawee'sacceptancevaryfrom the terms of thedraftas presented, the holder mayrefuse the acceptance and treat the draft as dishonored. In that case,the drawee may cancel the acceptance.(b) The terms of adraftarenot varied by anacceptanceto pay at a particularbank or place in the United States, unless the acceptance states that the draftis to be paid only at that bank or place.(c) If the holder assentsto anacceptancevarying the terms of adraft,the obligation of eachdrawerandindorserthatdoes not expressly assent to the acceptance is discharged.

§ 3-411. REFUSAL TO PAY CASHIER'S CHECKS, TELLER'S CHECKS, AND CERTIFIED CHECKS.(a) In this section,"obligated bank" means theacceptorof a certified check or theissuerof acashier's checkorteller's checkbought from the issuer.(b) If the obligated bank wrongfully (i) refuses to pay acashier's checkorcertified check, (ii) stops payment of ateller's check, or (iii) refuses to pay a dishonored teller's check, the person asserting the right to enforce thecheckis entitled to compensation for expenses and loss of interest resulting from the nonpayment and may recover consequential damages if the obligated bank refuses to pay after receiving notice of particular circumstances giving rise to the damages.(c) Expenses or consequential damages under subsection (b) are not recoverable if the refusal of the obligated bank to pay occurs because (i) the bank suspends payments, (ii) the obligated bank asserts a claim or defense of the bank that it has reasonable grounds to believe is available against theperson entitled to enforcetheinstrument, (iii) the obligated bank has a reasonable doubt whether the person demanding payment is the person entitled to enforce the instrument, or (iv) payment is prohibited by law.

§ 3-412. OBLIGATION OF ISSUER OF NOTE OR CASHIER’S CHECK.Theissuerof anoteorcashier'scheckor otherdraftdrawn on thedrawerisobliged to pay theinstrument(i) according to itsterms at the time it wasissuedor, if not issued, atthe time it first came into possession of a holder, or (ii) if the issuer signedanincomplete instrument, according toits terms when completed, to the extent stated in Sections3-115and3-407. Theobligation is owed to aperson entitledto enforcethe instrument or to anindorserwhopaid the instrument under Section3-415.

§ 3-413. OBLIGATION OF ACCEPTOR.(a) Theacceptorofadraftis obliged to pay the draft (i) according to itsterms at the time it was accepted, even though theacceptancestatesthat the draft is payable "as originally drawn" or equivalent terms,(ii) if the acceptance varies the terms of the draft, according to the termsof the draft as varied, or (iii) if the acceptance is of adraftthatis anincomplete instrument, according toits terms when completed, to the extent stated in Sections3-115and3-407. Theobligation is owed to aperson entitled toenforcethe draft or to thedraweror an indorserwho paid the draft under Section3-414or3-415.(b) If the certification ofacheckor otheracceptanceofadraftstates the amount certified or accepted, the obligationof theacceptoris that amount. If (i) the certificationor acceptance does not state an amount, (ii) the amount of theinstrumentissubsequently raised, and (iii) the instrument is then negotiated to aholderin due course, the obligation of theacceptoristhe amount of the instrument at the time it was taken by the holder in due course.

§ 3-414. OBLIGATION OF DRAWER.(a) This section does notapply tocashier's checksor otherdraftsdrawnon thedrawer.(b) If an unaccepteddraftisdishonored, thedraweris obliged to pay the draft (i)according to its terms at the time it wasissuedor, ifnot issued, at the time it first came into possession of a holder, or (ii) ifthe drawer signed anincomplete instrument,according to its terms when completed, to the extent stated in Sections3-115and3-407. Theobligation is owed to aperson entitled toenforcethe draft or to anindorserwho paid thedraft under Section3-415.(c) If adraftisaccepted by a bank, thedraweris discharged, regardlessof when or by whomacceptancewas obtained.(d) If adraftisaccepted and theacceptoris not a bank, the obligationof thedrawerto pay the draft if the draft is dishonoredby the acceptor is the same as the obligation of anindorserunderSection3-415(a)and (c).(e) If adraftstatesthat it is drawn "without recourse" or otherwise disclaims liabilityof thedrawerto pay the draft, the drawer is not liableunder subsection (b) to pay the draft if the draft is not acheck. Adisclaimer of the liability stated in subsection (b) is not effective if thedraft is a check.(f) If (i) acheckisnot presented for payment or given to a depositary bank for collection within30 days after its date, (ii) thedraweesuspends paymentsafter expiration of the 30-day period without paying the check, and (iii) becauseof the suspension of payments, thedraweris deprivedof funds maintained with the drawee to cover payment of the check, the drawerto the extent deprived of funds may discharge its obligation to pay the checkby assigning to theperson entitled to enforcethecheck the rights of the drawer against the drawee with respect to the funds.

§ 3-415. OBLIGATION OF INDORSER.(a) Subject to subsections(b), (c), and (d) and to Section3-419(d), if aninstrumentisdishonored, anindorseris obliged to pay the amountdue on the instrument (i) according to the terms of the instrument at the timeit was indorsed, or (ii) if the indorser indorsed anincompleteinstrument, according to its terms when completed, to the extent statedin Sections3-115and3-407. Theobligation of the indorser is owed to apersonentitled to enforcethe instrument or to a subsequent indorser who paidthe instrument under this section.(b) If anindorsementstatesthat it is made "without recourse" or otherwise disclaims liabilityof the indorser, the indorser is not liable under subsection (a) to pay theinstrument.(c) If notice of dishonorof aninstrumentis required by Section3-503andnotice of dishonor complying with that section is not given to anindorser,the liability of the indorser under subsection (a) is discharged.(d) If adraftisaccepted by a bank after anindorsementis made,the liability of theindorserunder subsection (a) isdischarged.(e) If anindorserofacheckis liable under subsection (a) and the check isnot presented for payment, or given to a depositary bank for collection, within30 days after the day theindorsementwas made, theliability of the indorser under subsection (a) is discharged.

§ 3-416. TRANSFER WARRANTIES.(a) A person who transfersaninstrumentforconsiderationwarrantsto the transferee and, if the transfer is byindorsement,to any subsequent transferee that:
(1) the warrantor is apersonentitled to enforcetheinstrument;
(2) all signatures on theinstrumentareauthentic and authorized;
(3) theinstrumenthas not beenaltered;
(4) theinstrumentis not subjectto a defense or claim in recoupment of anypartywhichcan be asserted against the warrantor; and
(5) the warrantor has no knowledge of any insolvency proceedingcommenced with respect to themakeroracceptoror,in the case of an unaccepteddraft, thedrawer;and
(6) with respect to a remotely-created consumer item,that the person on whose account the item is drawn authorized the issuance ofthe item in the amount for which the item is drawn.(b) A person to whom the warrantiesunder subsection (a) are made and who took theinstrumentingoodfaithmay recover from the warrantor as damages for breach of warranty anamount equal to the loss suffered as a result of the breach, but not more thanthe amount of the instrument plus expenses and loss of interest incurred asa result of the breach.(c) The warranties statedin subsection (a) cannot be disclaimed with respect tochecks. Unlessnotice of a claim for breach of warranty is given to the warrantor within 30days after the claimant has reason to know of the breach and the identity ofthe warrantor, the liability of the warrantor under subsection (b) is dischargedto the extent of any loss caused by the delay in giving notice of the claim.(d) A [cause of action] forbreach of warranty under this section accrues when the claimant has reason toknow of the breach.

§ 3-417. PRESENTMENT WARRANTIES.(a) If an unaccepteddraftispresented to thedraweefor payment oracceptanceandthe drawee pays or accepts the draft, (i) the person obtaining payment or acceptance,at the time ofpresentment, and (ii) a previous transferorof the draft, at the time of transfer, warrant to the drawee making paymentor accepting the draft ingood faiththat:
(1) the warrantor is, or was, at the time the warrantortransferred thedraft, apersonentitled to enforcethe draft or authorized to obtain payment or acceptanceof the draft on behalf of aperson entitledto enforcethe draft;
(2) thedrafthas not been altered;
(3) the warrantor has no knowledge that the signatureof thedrawerof thedraftis unauthorized;
(4) with respect to any remotely-created consumer item,that the person on whose account the item is drawn authorized the issuance ofthe item in the amount for which the item is drawn.(b) Adraweemakingpayment may recover from any warrantor damages for breach of warranty equalto the amount paid by the drawee less the amount the drawee received or is entitledto receive from thedrawerbecause of the payment. Inaddition, the drawee is entitled to compensation for expenses and loss of interestresulting from the breach. The right of the drawee to recover damagesunder this subsection is not affected by any failure of the drawee to exerciseordinarycarein making payment. If the drawee accepts thedraft,breach of warranty is a defense to the obligation of theacceptor. Ifthe acceptor makes payment with respect to the draft, the acceptor is entitledto recover from any warrantor for breach of warranty the amounts stated in thissubsection.(c) If adraweeassertsa claim for breach of warranty under subsection (a) based on an unauthorizedindorsementofthedraftor analterationofthe draft, the warrantor may defend by proving that the indorsement is effectiveunder Section3-404or3-405orthedraweris precluded under Section3-406or4-406fromasserting against the drawee the unauthorized indorsement or alteration.(d) If (i) a dishonoreddraftispresented for payment to thedraweror anindorseror(ii) any otherinstrumentis presented for paymentto apartyobliged to pay the instrument, and (iii) paymentis received, the following rules apply:
(1) The person obtaining payment and a prior transferorof theinstrumentwarrant to the person making paymentingood faiththat the warrantor is, or was, at thetime the warrantor transferred theinstrument, apersonentitled to enforcetheinstrumentor authorizedto obtain payment on behalf of aperson entitledto enforcetheinstrument.
(2) The person making payment may recover from anywarrantor for breach of warranty an amount equal to the amount paid plus expensesand loss of interest resulting from the breach.(e) The warranties statedin subsections (a) and (d) cannot be disclaimed with respect tochecks. Unlessnotice of a claim for breach of warranty is given to the warrantor within 30days after the claimant has reason to know of the breach and the identity ofthe warrantor, the liability of the warrantor under subsection (b) or (d) isdischarged to the extent of any loss caused by the delay in giving notice ofthe claim.(f) A [cause of action] forbreach of warranty under this section accrues when the claimant has reason toknow of the breach.

§ 3-418. PAYMENT OR ACCEPTANCE BY MISTAKE.(a) Except as provided insubsection (c), if thedraweeof adraftpaysor accepts the draft and the drawee acted on the mistaken belief that (i) paymentof the draft had not been stopped pursuant to Section4-403or(ii) the signature of thedrawerof the draft was authorized,the drawee may recover the amount of the draft from the person to whom or forwhose benefit payment was made or, in the case ofacceptance,may revoke the acceptance. Rights of the drawee under this subsectionare not affected by failure of the drawee to exerciseordinarycarein paying or accepting the draft.(b) Except as provided insubsection (c), if aninstrumenthas been paid oraccepted by mistake and the case is not covered by subsection (a), the personpaying or accepting may, to the extent permitted by the law governing mistakeand restitution, (i) recover the payment from the person to whom or for whosebenefit payment was made or (ii) in the case ofacceptance,may revoke the acceptance.(c) The remedies providedby subsection (a) or (b) may not be asserted against a person who took theinstrumentingoodfaithand for value or who in good faith changed position in reliance onthe payment oracceptance. This subsection doesnot limit remedies provided by Section3-417or4-407.(d) Notwithstanding Section4-215,if aninstrumentis paid or accepted by mistake andthe payor oracceptorrecovers payment or revokesacceptanceundersubsection (a) or (b), the instrument is deemed not to have been paid or acceptedand is treated as dishonored, and the person from whom payment is recoveredhas rights as aperson entitled to enforcethedishonored instrument.

§ 3-419. INSTRUMENTS SIGNED FOR ACCOMMODATION.(a) If aninstrumentisissuedforvalue given for the benefit of apartyto the instrument("accommodatedparty") and another party to the instrument ("accommodationparty") signs the instrument for the purpose of incurring liabilityon the instrument without being a direct beneficiary of the value given forthe instrument, the instrument is signed by the accommodation party "foraccommodation."(b) An accommodation partymay sign theinstrumentasmaker,drawer,acceptor,orindorserand, subject to subsection (d), is obligedto pay the instrument in the capacity in which the accommodation party signs. Theobligation of an accommodation party may be enforced notwithstanding any statuteof frauds and whether or not the accommodation party receivesconsiderationforthe accommodation.(c) A person signing aninstrumentispresumed to be an accommodation party and there is notice that the instrumentis signed for accommodation if the signature is ananomalousindorsementor is accompanied by words indicating that the signer is actingas surety or guarantor with respect to the obligation of anotherpartytothe instrument. Except as provided in Section3-605,the obligation of an accommodation party to pay the instrument is not affectedby the fact that the person enforcing the obligation had notice when the instrumentwas taken by that person that the accommodation party signed the instrumentfor accommodation.(d) If the signature of apartytoaninstrumentis accompanied by words indicating unambiguouslythat the party is guaranteeing collection rather than payment of the obligationof another party to the instrument, the signer is obliged to pay the amountdue on the instrument to aperson entitledto enforcethe instrument only if (i) execution of judgment against theother party has been returned unsatisfied, (ii) the other party is insolventor in an insolvency proceeding, (iii) the other party cannot be served withprocess, or (iv) it is otherwise apparent that payment cannot be obtained fromthe other party.(e) If the signature of apartytoaninstrumentis accompanied by words indicating thatthe party guarantees payment or the signer signs the instrument as an accommodationparty in some other manner that does not unambiguously indicate an intentionto guarantee collection rather than payment, the signer is obliged to pay theamount due on the instrument to a person entitled to enforce the instrumentin the same circumstances as the accommodated party would be obliged, withoutprior resort to the accommodated party by the person entitled to enforce theinstrument.(f) An accommodation partywho pays theinstrumentis entitled to reimbursementfrom the accommodated party and is entitled to enforce the instrument againstthe accommodated party. In proper circumstances, an accommodation partymay obtain relief that requires the accommodated party to perform its obligationson the instrument. An accommodated party that pays the instrument has no rightof recourse against, and is not entitled to contribution from, an accommodationparty.

§ 3-420. CONVERSION OF INSTRUMENT.(a) The law applicable toconversion of personal property applies toinstruments. Aninstrument is also converted if it is taken by transfer, other than anegotiation,from a person not entitled to enforce the instrument or a bank makes or obtainspayment with respect to the instrument for a person not entitled to enforcethe instrument or receive payment. An action for conversion of an instrumentmay not be brought by (i) theissueroracceptorofthe instrument or (ii) a payee or indorsee who did not receive delivery of theinstrument either directly or through delivery to an agent or a co-payee.(b) In an action under subsection(a), the measure of liability is presumed to be the amount payable on theinstrument,but recovery may not exceed the amount of the plaintiff's interest in the instrument.(c) A representative, otherthan a depositary bank, who has ingood faithdealtwith aninstrumentor its proceeds on behalf of onewho was not theperson entitled to enforcetheinstrument is not liable in conversion to that person beyond the amount of anyproceeds that it has not paid out.



PART 5. DISHONOR

§ 3-501. PRESENTMENT.(a)"Presentment" meansa demand made by or on behalf of apersonentitled to enforceaninstrument(i) to pay theinstrument made to thedraweeor apartyobligedto pay the instrument or, in the case of anoteor accepteddraftpayableat a bank, to the bank, or (ii) to accept a draft made to the drawee.(b) The following rules aresubject to Article 4, agreement of the parties, and clearing-house rules andthe like:
(1) Presentment may be made at the place of paymentof theinstrumentand must be made at the place ofpayment if the instrument is payable at a bank in the United States; may bemade by any commercially reasonable means, including an oral, written, or electroniccommunication; is effective when the demand for payment oracceptanceisreceived by the person to whompresentmentis made;and is effective if made to any one of two or moremakers,acceptors,drawees,or other payors.
(2) Upon demand of the person to whompresentmentismade, the person making presentment must (i) exhibit theinstrument,(ii) give reasonable identification and, if presentment is made on behalf ofanother person, reasonable evidence of authority to do so, and (iii) sign areceipt on the instrument for any payment made or surrender the instrument iffull payment is made.
(3) Without dishonoring theinstrument,thepartyto whompresentmentismade may (i) return the instrument for lack of a necessaryindorsement,or (ii) refuse payment oracceptancefor failure ofthe presentment to comply with the terms of the instrument, an agreement ofthe parties, or other applicable law or rule.
(4) Thepartyto whompresentmentismade may treat presentment as occurring on the next business day after the dayof presentment if the party to whom presentment is made has established a cut-offhour not earlier than 2 p.m. for the receipt and processing ofinstrumentspresentedfor payment oracceptanceand presentment is madeafter the cut-off hour.

§ 3-502. DISHONOR.(a) Dishonor of anoteisgoverned by the following rules:
(1) If thenoteis payable ondemand, the note is dishonored ifpresentmentisduly made to themakerand the note is not paid on theday of presentment.
(2) If thenoteis not payableon demand and is payable at or through a bank or the terms of the note requirepresentment,the note is dishonored if presentment is duly made and the note is not paidon the day it becomes payable or the day of presentment, whichever is later.
(3) If thenoteis not payableon demand and paragraph (2) does not apply, the note is dishonored if it isnot paid on the day it becomes payable.(b) Dishonor of an unaccepteddraftotherthan a documentary draft is governed by the following rules:
(1) If acheckis duly presentedfor payment to the payor bank otherwise than for immediate payment over thecounter, the check is dishonored if the payor bank makes timely return of thecheck or sends timely notice of dishonor or nonpayment under Section4-301or4-302,or becomes accountable for the amount of thecheckunderSection4-302.
(2) If adraftis payable ondemand and paragraph (1) does not apply, the draft is dishonored ifpresentmentforpayment is duly made to thedraweeand the draft is notpaid on the day of presentment.
(3) If adraftis payable ona date stated in the draft, the draft is dishonored if (i)presentmentforpayment is duly made to thedraweeand payment is notmade on the day the draft becomes payable or the day of presentment, whicheveris later, or (ii) presentment foracceptanceis dulymade before the day the draft becomes payable and the draft is not acceptedon the day of presentment.
(4) If adraftis payable onelapse of a period of time after sight oracceptance,the draft is dishonored ifpresentmentfor acceptanceis duly made and the draft is not accepted on the day of presentment.(c) Dishonor of an unaccepteddocumentarydraftoccurs according to the rules statedin subsection (b)(2), (3), and (4), except that payment oracceptancemaybe delayed without dishonor until no later than the close of the third businessday of thedraweefollowing the day on which payment oracceptance is required by those paragraphs.(d) Dishonor of an accepteddraftisgoverned by the following rules:
(1) If thedraftis payableon demand, the draft is dishonored ifpresentmentforpayment is duly made to theacceptorand the draft isnot paid on the day of presentment.
(2) If thedraftis not payableon demand, the draft is dishonored ifpresentmentforpayment is duly made to theacceptorand payment isnot made on the day it becomes payable or the day of presentment, whicheveris later.(e) In any case in whichpresentmentisotherwise required for dishonor under this section and presentment is excusedunder Section3-504, dishonor occurs without presentmentif theinstrumentis not duly accepted or paid.(f) If adraftisdishonored because timelyacceptanceof the draftwas not made and the person entitled to demand acceptance consents to a lateacceptance, from the time of acceptance the draft is treated as never havingbeen dishonored.

§ 3-503. NOTICE OF DISHONOR.(a) The obligation of anindorserstatedin Section3-415(a)and the obligation of adrawerstatedin Section3-414(d)may not be enforced unless (i) theindorser or drawer is given notice of dishonor of theinstrumentcomplyingwith this section or (ii) notice of dishonor is excused under Section3-504(b).(b) Notice of dishonor maybe given by any person; may be given by any commercially reasonable means, includingan oral, written, or electronic communication; and is sufficient if it reasonablyidentifies theinstrumentand indicates that the instrumenthas been dishonored or has not been paid or accepted. Return of an instrumentgiven to a bank for collection is sufficient notice of dishonor.(c) Subject to Section3-504(c),with respect to aninstrumenttaken for collectionby a collecting bank, notice of dishonor must be given (i) by the bank beforemidnight of the next banking day following the banking day on which the bankreceives notice of dishonor of the instrument, or (ii) by any other person within30 days following the day on which the person receives notice of dishonor. Withrespect to any other instrument, notice of dishonor must be given within 30days following the day on which dishonor occurs.

§ 3-504. EXCUSED PRESENTMENT AND NOTICE OF DISHONOR.(a) Presentment for paymentoracceptanceof aninstrumentisexcused if (i) the person entitled to present the instrument cannot with reasonablediligence make presentment, (ii) themakeroracceptorhasrepudiated an obligation to pay the instrument or is dead or in insolvency proceedings,(iii) by the terms of theinstrumentpresentmentisnot necessary to enforce the obligation ofindorsersorthedrawer, (iv) the drawer or indorser whose obligationis being enforced has waivedpresentmentor otherwisehas no reason to expect or right to require that the instrument be paid or accepted,or (v) the drawer instructed thedraweenot to pay oraccept thedraftor the drawee was not obligated to thedrawer to pay the draft.(b) Notice of dishonor isexcused if (i) by the terms of theinstrumentnoticeof dishonor is not necessary to enforce the obligation of apartytopay the instrument, or (ii) the party whose obligation is being enforced waivednotice of dishonor. A waiver ofpresentmentisalso a waiver of notice of dishonor.(c) Delay in giving noticeof dishonor is excused if the delay was caused by circumstances beyond the controlof the person giving the notice and the person giving the notice exercised reasonablediligence after the cause of the delay ceased to operate.

§ 3-505. EVIDENCE OF DISHONOR.(a) The following are admissibleas evidence and create a presumption of dishonor and of any notice of dishonorstated:
(1) a document regular in form as provided in subsection(b) which purports to be a protest;
(2) a purported stamp or writing of thedrawee,payor bank, or presenting bank on or accompanying theinstrumentstatingthatacceptanceor payment has been refused unlessreasons for the refusal are stated and the reasons are not consistent with dishonor;
(3) a book or record of thedrawee,payor bank, or collecting bank, kept in the usual course of business which showsdishonor, even if there is no evidence of who made the entry.(b) A protest is a certificateof dishonor made by a United States consul or vice consul, or a notary publicor other person authorized to administer oaths by the law of the place wheredishonor occurs. It may be made upon information satisfactory to thatperson. The protest must identify theinstrumentandcertify either thatpresentmenthas been made or,if not made, the reason why it was not made, and that the instrument has beendishonored by nonacceptance or nonpayment. The protest may also certifythat notice of dishonor has been given to some or all parties.



PART 6. DISCHARGE AND PAYMENT

§ 3-601. DISCHARGE AND EFFECT OF DISCHARGE.(a) The obligation of apartytopay theinstrumentis discharged as stated in thisArticle or by an act or agreement with thepartywhichwould discharge an obligation to pay money under a simple contract.(b) Discharge of the obligationof apartyis not effective against a person acquiringrights of aholder in due courseof theinstrumentwithoutnotice of the discharge.

§ 3-602. PAYMENT.(a) Subject to subsection(b), aninstrumentis paid to the extent payment ismade (i) by or on behalf of apartyobliged to pay theinstrument, and (ii) to aperson entitledto enforcethe instrument. To the extent of the payment, the obligationof the party obliged to pay the instrument is discharged even though paymentis made with knowledge of a claim to the instrument under Section3-306byanother person.(b) Subject to subsection (e) a noteis paid to the extent payment is made by or on behalf of apartyobligedto pay the note to a person that formerly was entitled to enforce the note onlyif at the time of the payment the party obliged to pay has not received adequatenotification that the note has been transferred and that payment is to be madeto the transferee. A notification is adequate only if it is signed by the transferoror the transferee; reasonably identifies the transferred note; and providesan address at which payments subsequently can be made. Upon request, a transfereeshall seasonably furnish reasonable proof that the note has been transferred.Unless the transferee complies with the request, a payment to the person thatformerly was entitled to enforce the note is effective for purposes of subsection(c) even if the party obliged to pay the note has received a notification underthis paragraph.(c) Subject to subsection (e), tothe extent of a payment under subsections (a) and (b), the obligation of thepartyobligedto pay the instrument is discharged even though payment is made with knowledgeof a claim to the instrument under Section3-306by anotherperson.(d) Subject to subsection (e), atransferee, or anypartythat has acquired rights in theinstrument directly or indirectly from a transferee, including any such partythat has rights as a holder in due course, is deemed to have notice of any paymentthat is made under subsection (b) after the date that the note is transferredto the transferee but before the party obliged to pay the note receives adequatenotification of the transfer.(e) The obligation of apartytopay theinstrumentis not discharged under subsections(a) through (d) if:
(1) a claim to theinstrumentunderSection3-306is enforceable against thepartyreceivingpayment and (i) payment is made with knowledge by the payor that payment isprohibited by injunction or similar process of a court of competent jurisdiction,or (ii) in the case of an instrument other than acashier'scheck,teller's check, orcertifiedcheck, the party making payment accepted, from the person having a claimto the instrument, indemnity against loss resulting from refusal to pay thepersonentitled to enforcethe instrument; or
(2) the person making payment knows that theinstrumentisa stolen instrument and pays a person it knows is in wrongful possession ofthe instrument.(f) As used in this section, "signed," withrespect to a record that is not a writing, includes the attachment to or logicalassociation with the record of an electronic symbol, sound, or process to orwith the record with the present intent to adopt or accept the record.

§ 3-603. TENDER OF PAYMENT.(a) If tender of payment ofan obligation to pay aninstrumentis made to apersonentitled to enforcethe instrument, the effect of tender is governed byprinciples of law applicable to tender of payment under a simple contract.(b) If tender of payment ofan obligation to pay aninstrumentis made to apersonentitled to enforcethe instrument and the tender is refused, there is discharge,to the extent of the amount of the tender, of the obligation of anindorseroraccommodationpartyhaving a right of recourse with respectto the obligation to which the tender relates.(c) If tender of payment ofan amount due on aninstrumentis made to apersonentitled to enforcethe instrument, the obligation of the obligor to payinterest after the due date on the amount tendered is discharged. Ifpresentmentisrequired with respect to an instrument and the obligor is able and ready topay on the due date at every place of payment stated in the instrument, theobligor is deemed to have made tender of payment on the due date to the personentitled to enforce the instrument.

§ 3-604. DISCHARGE BY CANCELLATION OR RENUNCIATION.(a) Apersonentitled to enforceaninstrument, with or withoutconsideration,may discharge the obligation of apartyto pay the instrument(i) by an intentional voluntary act, such as surrender of the instrument tothe party, destruction, mutilation, or cancellation of the instrument, cancellationor striking out of the party's signature, or the addition of words to the instrumentindicating discharge, or (ii) by agreeing not to sue or otherwise renouncingrights against the party by a signed record.(b) Cancellation or strikingout of anindorsementpursuant to subsection (a)does not affect the status and rights of apartyderivedfrom the indorsement.(c) As used in this section, "signed," withrespect to a record that is not a writing, includes the attachment to or logicalassociation with the record of an electronic symbol, sound, or process to orwith the record with the present intent to adopt or accept the record.

§ 3-605. DISCHARGE OF SECONDARY OBLIGORS.(a) If apersonentitled to enforceaninstrumentreleases theobligation of a principal obligor in whole or in part, and another party tothe instrument is a secondary obligor with respect to the obligation of thatprincipal obligor, the following rules apply:
(1) Any obligations of the principal obligor to the secondaryobligor with respect to any previous payment by the secondary obligor are notaffected. Unless the terms of the release preserve the secondary obligor's recourse,the principal obligor is discharged, to the extent of the release, from anyother duties to the secondary obligor under this article.
(2) Unless the terms of the release provide that the personentitled to enforce the instrument retains the right to enforce the instrumentagainst the secondary obligor, the secondary obligor is discharged to the sameextent as the principal obligor from any unperformed portion of its obligationon the instrument. If the instrument is a check and the obligation of the secondaryobligor is based on an indorsement of the check, the secondary obligor is dischargedwithout regard to the language or circumstances of the discharge or other release.
(3) If the secondary obligor is not discharged under paragraph
(2), the secondary obligor is discharged to the extent of the value of the considerationfor the release, and to the extent that the release would otherwise cause thesecondary obligor a loss.(b) If apersonentitled to enforceaninstrumentgrants a principalobligor an extension of the time at which one or more payments are due on theinstrument and another party to the instrument is a secondary obligor withrespect to the obligation of that principal obligor, the following rules apply:
(1) Any obligations of the principal obligor to the secondaryobligor with respect to any previous payment by the secondary obligor are notaffected. Unless the terms of the extension preserve the secondary obligor'srecourse, the extension correspondingly extends the time for performance ofany other duties owed to the secondary obligor by the principal obligor underthis article.
(2) The secondary obligor is discharged to the extentthat the extension would otherwise cause the secondary obligor a loss.
(3) To the extent that the secondary obligor is not dischargedunder paragraph (2), the secondary obligor may perform its obligations to aperson entitled to enforce the instrument as if the time for payment had notbeen extended or, unless the terms of the extension provide that the personentitled to enforce the instrument retains the right to enforce the instrumentagainst the secondary obligor as if the time for payment had not been extended,treat the time for performance of its obligations as having been extended correspondingly.(c) If apersonentitled to enforceaninstrumentagrees, withor withoutconsideration, to a modification ofthe obligation of a principal obligor other than a complete or partial releaseor an extension of the due date and another party to the instrument is a secondaryobligor with respect to the obligation of that principal obligor, the followingrules apply:
(1) Any obligations of the principal obligor to the secondaryobligor with respect to any previous payment by the secondary obligor are notaffected. The modification correspondingly modifies any other duties owed tothe secondary obligor by the principal obligor under this article.
(2) The secondary obligor is discharged from any unperformedportion of its obligation to the extent that the modification would otherwisecause the secondary obligor a loss.
(3) To the extent that the secondary obligor is not dischargedunder paragraph (2), the secondary obligor may satisfy its obligation on theinstrument as if the modification had not occurred, or treat its obligationon the instrument as having been modified correspondingly.(d) If the obligation of a principalobligor is secured by an interest in collateral, anotherpartytothe instrument is a secondary obligor with respect to that obligation, and aperson entitled to enforce the instrument impairs the value of the interestin collateral, the obligation of the secondary obligor is discharged to theextent of the impairment. The value of an interest in collateral is impairedto the extent the value of the interest is reduced to an amount less than theamount of the recourse of the secondary obligor, or the reduction in value ofthe interest causes an increase in the amount by which the amount of the recourseexceeds the value of the interest. For purposes of this subsection, impairingthe value of an interest in collateral includes failure to obtain or maintainperfection or recordation of the interest in collateral, release of collateralwithout substitution of collateral of equal value or equivalent reduction ofthe underlying obligation, failure to perform a duty to preserve the value ofcollateral owed, under Article 9 or other law, to a debtor or other person secondarilyliable, and failure to comply with applicable law in disposing of or otherwiseenforcing the interest in collateral.(e) A secondary obligor is not dischargedunder subsection (a)(3), (b), (c), or (d) unless thepersonentitled to enforcetheinstrumentknows thatthe person is a secondary obligor or has notice under Section3-419(c)thatthe instrument was signed for accommodation.(f) A secondary obligor is not dischargedunder this section if the secondary obligor consents to the event or conductthat is the basis of the discharge, or the instrument or a separate agreementof the party provides for waiver of discharge under this section specificallyor by general language indicating that parties waive defenses based on suretyshipor impairment of collateral. Unless the circumstances indicate otherwise, consentby the principal obligor to an act that would lead to a discharge under thissection constitutes consent to that act by the secondary obligor if the secondaryobligor controls the principal obligor or deals with the person entitled toenforce the instrument on behalf of the principal obligor.(g) A release or extension preservesa secondary obligor's recourse if the terms of the release or extension providethat the person entitled to enforce the instrument retains the right to enforcethe instrument against the secondary obligor; and the recourse of the secondaryobligor continues as though the release or extension had not been granted.(h) Except as otherwise providedin subsection (i), a secondary obligor asserting discharge under this sectionhas the burden of persuasion both with respect to the occurrence of the actsalleged to harm the secondary obligor and loss or prejudice caused by thoseacts.(i) If the secondary obligor demonstratesprejudice caused by an impairment of its recourse, and the circumstances ofthe case indicate that the amount of loss is not reasonably susceptible of calculationor requires proof of facts that are not ascertainable, it is presumed that theact impairing recourse caused a loss or impairment equal to the liability ofthe secondary obligor on the instrument. In that event, the burden of persuasionas to any lesser amount of the loss is on the person entitled to enforce theinstrument.

